Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal.
Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation, or any nation so conceived and so dedicated, can long endure. 
We are met on a great battle-field of that war. 
We have come to dedicate a portion of that field, as a final resting place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. 
It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this
But, in a larger sense, we can not dedicate -- 
we can not consecrate -- 
we can not hallow -- this ground. 
The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. 
The world will little note, nor long remember what we say here, but it can never forget what they did here. 
It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they who fought here have thus far so nobly advanced. 
It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us -- 
that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion -- 
that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain -- 
that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom -- 
and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth.
In the deep learning journey so far on this website, I’ve introduced dense neural networks and convolutional neural networks (CNNs) which explain how to perform classification tasks on static images.  
We’ve seen good results, especially with CNN’s. 
However, what happens if we want to analyze dynamic data? What about videos, voice recognition or sequences of text? 
There are ways to do some of this using CNN’s, but the most popular method of performing classification and other analysis on sequences of data is recurrent neural networks.  
This tutorial will be a very comprehensive introduction to recurrent neural networks and a subset of such networks – long-short term memory networks (or LSTM networks). 
I’ll also show you how to implement such networks in TensorFlow – including the data preparation step. 
It’s going to be a long one, so settle in and enjoy these pivotal networks in deep learning – at the end of this post, you’ll have a very solid understanding of recurrent neural networks and LSTMs. 
By the way, if you’d like to learn how to build LSTM networks in Keras, see this tutorial.