Okay, I can see two  in here...
Can you read the article first, please?
Yes.
Loudly.
The president of the republic should be an Egyptian born to Egyptian parents and enjoy salient political rights. His age must not be less than 40 Gregorian years.
Mm-hmm.
I agree with the president, um...
Mm-hmm.
He should be Egyptian born to Egyptian parents, because it will have, make him have well-rounded perspectives, and it may lead him to having interests to other countries, and so...
It would make him have interest, or will not make him, prevent him?
It would not prevent him to, um, from getting to a different country's interest than his country.
Okay. Good job.
I agree with Yessenia, because if both, if he's from parents that are Egyptians, he can have some connection with Egyptians, and he won't have pressure from other countries that want to change some of the rules they have. And, um, have, like, wars with different countries about their economy and things they have different.
Mm-hmm.
That's what I, that's what my opinion, yeah, that's why I agree with her.
Good.
I disagree with the part of the, where it says that they should be Egyptian parents.
Mm-hmm.
But I agree with Jesus and his concerns about the Egyptian parents. But my opinion is that they should have at least one parent Egyptian and the other another race.
Mm-hmm.
Because if one parent's Egyptian, like, the child, or the, becoming president, would have a something of concerns, and would know some parts of Egypt and its government, and if the other, and this other race would help him guarantee for the governments in the other places and countries, states.
Okay. Good job.
Which, the legislative process.
Good job.
I agree with Yessenia and Jesus, because if they're from Egypt and their parents are Egyptian, then they can have some cultural background, and they'll know more from people, and they'll have connections with the people.
Good. Good. So now, what is the result now? Do you think you're going to change the part? I see, I've heard some different opinions here. Are you going with the change, or do you want to keep it as it is?
I think we should keep it as it is, because, I mean, that's a good thing to have Egyptian parents and a background, like Hilda said, a background of culture.
Mm-hmm.
So I'll say yes, leave it. Just leave it the same.
Okay.
Just that part.
Okay. Very good. So you will just leave that part as it is without change. Is there any other parts for this article?
Yeah, there's a second part. His age must not be less than 40 Gregorian years.
Mm-hmm.
Um, I disagree, because, um, when you're young, you'll know more about technology and computers and everything.
Mm-hmm.
And that's how, um... the youth and younger children in Egypt, that's how they went and communicate.
I agree with Yessenia a lot, because when a president is younger but not old, he can connect with the youth and other younger people. Because when Egypt was in the revolution, the president was 81 years old.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Eighty-four. And behind the revolution was the young, and they were, like, younger. So he didn't really understand them really well, and they didn't understand him well, because he was a little older than them. So for me, I'll say 35, um... yeah, that's a good age for the president. They can connect with teenagers and people of younger...
I just...
Very good. I like the connection that you made, Jesus, between the age and the people who were behind the revolution. Good job.
I disagree with Jessie and Jesus.
Good. Yeah.
Because I think that part of the constitution is okay, because 40, um, 40 years is, makes them have plenty of experience and  to doing his, their work. And, like, it makes them... like, for, like, what Jesus said about technology, they can learn about it, and they can show them and all. So basically, they, they'll pretty much know.
Who do you mean by they?
The becoming president.
That the old, or the young?
The old.
The older one. He cannot understand or work with technology that much?
Yeah. Because Jesus said that they, um, they won't know about technology much.
Mm-hmm.
But they, if they're 40, they would have plenty of experience.
Mm-hmm.
And they can learn about the technology and know how to communicate with the younger adults and teens, you know?
Okay. Good, good.
I agree with Emi, but I agree with Jesus and Yessenia, so...
Mm-hm. That's okay.
Um, because...
Focus on what you want to do.
Like, youth was, like, 70 or 80% of Egypt.
Oh, good.
But if he's older, he's going to have more responsibilities.
Mm-hmm.
And he can be more responsible.
Mm-hm.
So...
I disagree with Hilda. Responsibility. Because when they're younger, they're more active and more responsible. Like, they can remember most things where they keep stuff. And when they're active, they can, like, travel through Egypt and see what's wrong with the country, and what's wrong with the economy, and they can make changes and talk to some people about their opinions and things they want to change the country. So I'll say the younger, but not too young. Like, 35 and up.
Thank you.
My opinion is that 40 is okay, because the young, the young people, like, at 35, because 35's not that young, but lower than that, can make a little bit of difficulties, because they make, they might make, like, a mistake. They might not know a thing, and they just put another thing.
You mean they will not be mature enough?
Yeah, mature.
Sure. Good.
Like, the 40s, the 40-year-old people, like, they, they pretty much know everything. They learn it, they were educated. The government laws, and...
Mm-hmm.
...this and that.
Mm-hmm.
But I think that part is, 40 years is better.
Good. So you would like to say, okay, just to open or, or, or break it down to so young like 30 or 20, or even teenager, right? Well, I like that, the two parts that you brought, Hilda, about 70%, that the majority of the population of Egypt are already youth. And your part that you said that this will make, Jesus, that that will make, help them to have good connection with the young people there. Good job. So what did you decide on? I see that you're going with certain direction.
We should change it. The first part of the statement of Art. 75.
Mm-hmm.
Which is the constitution. We should keep that as it is. And the second part of the 40 years, we should change it. Well, we should leave it like that, as well.
Very good. I like how you are compromising with them, Emi, and you are going with the change. So what part are you going to change?
Um...
It will be transforming to what?
Thirty-five.
Mm-hmm.
Thirty-five years.
Not less than 35.
Not less.
Good job. Excellent. Very good. After you take your notes, let's move to the next article.
Article 77. The term of the presidency shall be Gregorian, six Gregorian years, starting from the date of the announcement of the results of the .
Mm-hmm.
The president of the republic may be re-elected for other successful years.
Mm-hmm.
I disagree with the six years. Um...
Yes. Mm-hmm. Yes. Keep going.
Because I think it's a little longer, and some advantages are that people could get tired of the same president, um, having them over again. And I think it should be lower, for four years, like in America. And some of the disadvantages are that people could like him, and he might be re-elected for another six more years. Um, people could elect him because he did some great things to the economy and things to the country. And that's what I think of for the first one. What do you all think about it?
You think the first one should be as it is, or changed?
Changed to four years.
Changed to four years.
Yeah.
Okay.
What do you think?
I agree. I agree with Jesus, because an example of this is Hosni Mubarak. He, he, um, was following, supposedly, the terms of the constitution, which, which he made an excuse and took many chances in, um, having the presidency. So I, for, like, 30 years. So I, my opinion is to lower it down to four years, and if they're re-elected, which, they can use democracy like here in America.
Mm-hmm.
If they're re-elected, they will have at least 12 years. Basically.
Okay.
Do you disagree?
Um, the statement, I agree, because it will give them more stability and more time to elect.
Mm-hmm.
I agree with Jesus and Emi.
Why do you agree with them?
Because six years is a lot of years, and if they don't like him, they'll have to wait a lot, a long time so that another president can come into power.
Okay. So you think bringing it down to four years is better than having the president for one term for six years?
Yes.
Okay.
The second one is the president of the republic may be elected for another successful years. The thing I dislike about this is that they don't really explain how, um, the terms. For example, the president of Egypt, um, used an excuse to be re-elected, because, um, he said that in the constitution, it said, it didn't say specifically how much, how many terms, um, they lead. So I'll, I'll change that, that, um, leave specifically a number of terms they need to be elected. Um...
Very good point, Luis. I didn't... um, Jesus, I'm sorry. Very good point here. You brought really a very important point. And this is what will, this was, like, the concern of many people over there. The specification of, of what?
Successful terms.
Of the, how many terms, very good. Successive terms. Very good.
Does anybody have an opinion or disagreement?
Uh, I...
I agree with...
Okay. I agree with, um, you, because that's what Hosni Mubarak was really, he was making excuse to, like, stay, um, him how, like, it is, to keep him as a president and re-elect him over and over, to, um... and he was telling them that he was following the constitution, because their theory said there was, like, no number of .
Yeah, so he...
I agree also, because, like you said, the example of Hosni Mubarak was the serious, serious excuse. They, um, the people were basically mad at them that, um, certain term, because they didn't give a number of the terms, so, um, that's why Hosni Mubarak made that excuse and wanted to take over.
Very good. When, the point of staying too many years in power or in office, that brings to me something that's going on in other two countries. You remember any of the other countries in the Middle East, and Africa, that has something going on there? Because of this specific part?
Libya and Yemen.
What's going on in Libya now?
They're protesting against, um, Gaddafi?
Very good, yes. Good job. I like how you remembered his name. Why? Why they are protesting against him?
Because he'd been in power for, like, about 43 years.
Good job. Mm-hmm. Okay, what else is going on in another country? Or what country is having something going on?
Yemen.
Yemen.
Yemen.
Very good. Okay. Well, this brings us to go back again a little further, something about different types of governments. Remember, Egypt was a republic, okay? When their, the president stayed there for so many years, that will not be a republic country. That will be what?
A dictatorship.
A dictatorship. Very good. That will be a dictatorship. So the, the, the type of government is, if government is not a, the republic, or maybe democracy, as they say or claim, but it will be... it will be?
A dicta--
A dictatorship. Very good. And the people in power, the people in the office, government office, will be what? Dictators. Okay? It's because they do what they want to do, and they don't listen to other people. Okay, and what is another name for dictatorship, or very close to it?
We are entertaining using second person stories. Last time we were together, we started a story here today called Aliens in the Library. You saw that I put my name up here on the line, and it says Aliens in the Library. The introduction page is the part where I underlined those 'you's. Did you notice how these 'you's are underlined over and over again? The reason is because we don't typically write like this. This is kind of unfamiliar for us. We had fun making the beginning of this story. We only wrote half of the story using this graphic organizer. Do we remember why we only wrote half of the story? Why did we only write this side of the story?
Because that was, like the one story 
Right. There are two main things that you can choose from. If you look up here at the board, everybody should be looking up here, you can see that there are two choices for each one. You have your introduction and you have your two choices. We only did this half of the story, so right now we're going to hide the other half because we're not even thinking about it yet. So the story was that you're in the library, you hear a noise like, what did we say, rats in a blender? And so you go out to investigate what the story was. Now, that's the coolest part about this project guys. The reason we are making our own stories rather than me grabbing the book from a shelf and copying it on here is because we want to use information in our own way. What's that called when you take someone else's information and put it on a piece of paper? What's that called? Who can remember what that's called? What's that called?
Copyright infringement.
Copyright infringement, or there's another big 'p' word, too, that we talked about. That's a tough one, do you remember what that one is?
Plagiarism.
Plagiarism. And if you take a story of someone else's and stick it on there, it's a problem. And so, when you have a story in your mind you want to make sure that it is your story and your story alone. The best way for me to describe this is, right now for reading team we designed our own t-shirts for a t-shirt contest. Maybe your t-shirt isn't the winning entry, and the team doesn't make your shirt on their shirt. But you go to the competition, and another team from another school district has your shirt design on the front of it. How would you feel about that? How would you feel if someone took your idea and walked around with your shirt on? Your idea, that you came up with your in your own brain? How would that make you feel?
Kind of angry.
It would make me feel angry. How about you?
Sad.
Sad is another really good word for it. I would be furious, if we used our exciting words for our writing. But I would also be really disappointed. Maybe kind of flattered that someone liked my idea so much they put it on their own shirt, but it's the same thing. Is it wrong to steal someone's bicycle?
Yes.
You think it's wrong. Why is it wrong to steal someone's bicycle?
Because that was just like stealing. You steal without even asking.
Right. And that would hurt someone's feelings and it's illegal. Is it wrong to steal someone's pencil? Is it wrong to steal someone's pencil? Is it wrong to steal someone's pencil? Why is wrong to steal someone's pencil?
Because it's their property.
Because it's their property and it's not yours. So stealing someone's ideas is the same idea. So when you go to write your stories, boys and girls, and the reason we're writing our own stories is because we're making this our own. We're making this our own design. And I think that's really important for us to remember, because the more that you use your own ideas, the better it is for you. You have all these ideas in your heads, and I know you all have wonderful creativity, so we're writing our own stories. We're not taking the story of a TV show you saw last night like SpongeBob and you're not making a SpongeBob story. I want this to be your own idea. So we have Aliens in the Library, and we have our half here. You're a librarian, you hear a strange noise, it sounds like  screeching rats in a blender, what should you do? We decided our two choices were open the door or hide under your desk. If you open the door, you see the cutest little alien standing in the doorway. I think we had a majority of people here, I don't know if everyone here likes the cutest little alien idea, but this is our story and we're sticking with it. It has a big pink bow in her hair, antennae, and a pink polka dot dress. What do you do? You could either invite her in or slam the door in fright. You invite her in. She, surprisingly, speaks your language. She explains that her name is Lott and she became stranded when her spacecraft crashed. She asks if she can come home with you. What do you do? You have two choices here. You can either take her home or find another place for her to stay. Lott is a great house guest, she even helps with the dishes. You're glad you decided to take a chance on making a new intergalactic friend. You guys have seen this before. We made this story, and I'm not going to go over this story again and again, but I wanted to review with you what we talked about because over here, I'm going to show you what the final product is going to look like. This is what the story is going to be made. We did PowerPoint together. You're familiar with PowerPoint. We've done dozens of PowerPoints by now, at least. And so, on our screen here I'm going to open up my document that I made while you were gone, and it is what the PowerPoint is going to look like when you're finished. It is a choose your own adventure PowerPoint. And this is showing that you've mastered the skill of being able to use PowerPoint. You need to show me that you understand how to use this. This is kind of like our, I would say our final exam for PowerPoint so we know we can move onto the next thing, or the next project, the next exciting idea that we're going to do. So while this is loading, you're going to see that there are hyperlinks, and we're going to work on those as well, which will take you to different parts of your document. So up here we have Aliens in the Library by Mrs. Albright. I chose pictures that are graphics from PowerPoint, or from Clipart. The reason I did that is because we own those. I did not take them from the internet and drag them here. What happens if you take them from the internet and drag them here? They're someone else's ideas, remember? They're someone else's pictures. Yes.
You have to put the date and you have the put the website. We have to, what do we call it? Cite those. But we're not even going to do the citation because this is more about the writing of the project. So we're going to do that instead. My Aliens in the Library. I'm going to show you the start of this, and then you're going to go start writing your own story. So here's my Aliens in the Library story. Now, the best one from this class, the one that we find, or two, that we like the best, we're going to put on my website so the younger students can access these from home, which I think is a really great idea. These are not going to be graphic or bloody. You can have some things happen, but you can't have guts falling out and eyeballs popping out of heads. Okay? Because this is for a young... you have to remember your audience. This is for first and second graders to use in the library when they come. So we are not going to make a big, bloody, messy, gory story. Okay? We're going to make cute little alien stories, apparently. This is what we made last time together... All right. You are a librarian. You stay late one night working on your computer and you hear strange noises coming from the hallway. It sounds like rats in a blender. What should you do? We chose to do open the door. So when I click on the button that says open the door, it should take me to that page. Ta-da. You open a door and you see the cutest little alien standing in the doorway. She has a big pink bow in her hair and antennae, and a purple polka dot dress. What do you do next? We're going to invite her in. If we invite her in, she actually speaks your language. She explains that her name is Lott and she became stranded on Earth when her spaceship crashed. She asks if she can come home with you. What do you do? I want to see what you guys pick for this one. Who wants to pick one? Who wants to pick a direction? What are we going to do, take her home or find her another place to stay?
Find her another place.
Find her another place? Let's see what we decided for that part of the story. You hear her shuffle down the hallway. You may have missed the chance of a lifetime to meet an alien, but at least you are safe. The end. Now notice my ends always go back to the beginning. So this is PowerPoint, that you're familiar with, used in a different way. Are there any questions about what we did here? Yes.
How do you get the green buttons?
That's what we're going to talk about, and that's a new part of the skill that we're working on, but right now, we're going to just be making these. I'm handing out these. You're going to be in your groups and we're going to start writing our stories. After you're checked and over there, you'll make your PowerPoints, and I'll help you with your hyperlinks individually in your tables.
Does it...
I'm sorry, she's talking.
Does it have to be Aliens in the Library?
No, no. No, no, no. That's a great question. It can be anything you want. Any kind of story that you're interested in. As long as it is not ...
Bloody or gory.
Bloody or gory or ...
Violent.
Violent, or, what's the other thing that we just talked about?
Inappropriate.
Inappropriate or guts, you guys are really stuck on the guts.
Copyright.
Copyrighted by somebody else. I wanted to show you a couple other ones that you can choose when you come for book exchange. One of them looks like this. This is actually a non-fiction choose your own adventure about George Washington crossing the Delaware, and it's about you changing history which I think is a really neat idea. If you're not much of a reader, but you still wanted to read some books, this one is very similar to actually, what we're making here in PowerPoint. It has graphics, it's called a graphic novel, and there are different pieces that look almost like comic books. I have several of these also. I have the newer versions of the old ones that I showed you and read out loud. The ones from 1986, remember I told you how I liked them when I was a kid, a few years ago? This one just has new covers on it, so if you're looking for those. And then this last one, this is a brand new series that I'm hoping to get more on, it's called The Golden Path and it's the same idea, just different characters and a different set of authors that made those. So if you're looking for a choose your own adventure story, and you go to type it in the library catalog, you can type in choose your own adventure. The problem with that is you need to know how to spell adventure.
A-D-V-E-N-T-U-R-E.
That's exactly right. Thanks, I wasn't even expecting that. The other thing to remember when we're keeping in mind, I'm going to be coming around to help you with your PowerPoints. Remember, we have to use that rubric, that rubric. Show me that you know what I'm talking about. Which rubric am I talking about? Show me. Show me your papers. Yes. This is the one that you need to do. Also, you can put that down. This other one that I want you to remember, the other thing to keep in mind, is we color coded these and we numbered them. The slides need to go in the order that you need it to be. This is a review of PowerPoint, so this shouldn't be anything new that you haven't seen before. This is kind of our graduation project for PowerPoint so that we can move on to the next project, next time. So we're working with PowerPoint. Who remembers how to insert a text box? What were the directions? We went over this before, and we went over it a couple different times. How do we insert a text box?
You go to insert, you go over under the text box, click on it, and then you'll drag it and there it is.
There it is. And how do you make it change color? Does anyone remember how we make it change color? How do we make it change color? We're on insert and text box. And make sure you make one down here. Yep. And then you can type in it, and then you do what with it? That's not wanting to cooperate is it? That's okay. Let's work on this one together. If you click on text box, you make the text box and you start typing in it. Who remembers how we change the color of the text box? That's what we're going to need to be able to do for our buttons and our hyperlinks that we talked about. Who remembers?
You double-click on the box and it will show up...
Right. You double click on the box, or sometimes even triple click until you get those three a's at the top, then you can change your color. I'll be around to help you. Are there any questions about this right now? Anyone have anything that they want to talk about before we get started. Every slide has to have a picture. What happens if you do not have a picture that you like from Clipart? What do you do? I want you, I'm encouraging you to use Clipart because it's something that's already there and we don't have to worry about where the source came from. But what do we do if you want to find a different picture somewhere else? What do we do?
Find your picture.
You can find your picture under Google images. Then what do we do?
Then you copy it and then you put it back, and then we copy the source.
You have to have the source. Very good. Very, very good. Okay. If you would like to have a whole separate slide with sources, you can do that. And we've done that before.
And the date.
And the date is very important. I'm glad that you remembered that. Okay, so I'll be around to help you, go ahead and get started back again on your project. Make sure the slides are in order. Do you want to format your designs? You go under design, you two can agree on a color scheme. Do you like that one? That's good. Let's look back at your thing. Let me see which one was number two. That was number three. Click on number two. And it should be, exactly, boys, look at how you did that. You put the words at the top, now I did check the word vial on yours and it's spelled wrong. V-I-A-L. Maybe my writing is hard to read. And then you have the two text boxes here at the bottom. If something gets stuck, can I have you guys be the experts and go over and help them?
Sure.
Okay, great. Thanks. Yes.
Can you help us?
Sure. What's the problem?
We can get 
Well this one we want to get rid of. Remember, when you go to do the insert and you insert a new slide, you want to make sure that the layout is the title only. Remember how we talked about that one? So you want to insert the text box. You show me, what do we do? Right. And then what do we do? Okay, so you drag it. What are you typing in there? Okay. So you need how many text boxes then? Exactly. All right, so you go ahead and type in there so you can show me you know what to do with that. Can you click on it and then, use typing? Upstairs. Okay, now you want to, how do we make sure you pull that up? There you go, Are you okay with all the pink?
I don't care.
Good. Make sure everyone's input is added, though. Maybe he can help with the graphics. Everyone needs to be able to do something. We have to make sure this is fair for everybody. You're working the mouse, you're working the keyboard and he's holding the paper. Let's maybe switch it up a little bit closer, okay? So everyone has a turn.
