 I'm not gonna have no peace with that. If you feel something, I don't know, something  like done bothered me that done made me like... brought me down to the point where I was crying about it The first thing he say, "I ain't gonna tell nobody, "but I feel where you coming from." He tell me it shouldn't get to that point where you mad over something that doesn't matter. If it's good or not, that seriously don't matter. That's in the past; the past ain't gonna do nothing. The past can't hurt you.
 Okay. Alright.
 That's what I'd tell him.
 So, really this kind of conversation should've been held with what kind of friend?
 A pretty good friend.
 A pretty good friend, or maybe even your best friend. Nope? Not your best friend?
  Oh yes, my best friend. You already know who I'm talking about. He's my best friend. Now, he one of them people that he done did some stuff to me that made me mad. I ask him, "Man, why you doing this? "I thought you was different from everybody else." But, not once have I actually went out there and played the cards while I'm at home. How I'm not gonna tell nobody, and then come two days later, everybody and their momma walking up to him, and asking him questions. "Uh, why you did this to her?"
 So, let me ask you this. So, your saying you've had conversations with your best friend before, and then he's divulged information that you've said to him?
 No, from time to time, he might get mad, and he'll say something, then we have to have that one on one talk. "OK, this was between me and you. I don't want to hear this coming out nobody else's mouth." Cause then I know point blank that you done said something.
 Let me ask you this, if you would have that conversation with someone, is he truly your best friend? Is that a conversation that... Jay, chime in any time. If you got to keep reminding him that, hey man, if you tell somebody something and you gotta be worried about whether their gonna tell it to someone else,
 Honestly. are they really your best friend?
 No. Like I said before, that's another acquaintance, because you can't trust him like that man. He telling you he ain't gonna tell nobody, but he going back on his word.
 He going to get a friend to turn on you in a heartbeat, that's why I said it's about you.
 Johnny? No.
 Between what you say...
 I don't blame Johnny.
 If he's truly your best friend...
 He won't tell nobody.
 He won't tell anybody.
 But then, you got like... it's a boundary between stuff you tell. You can tell your best, best friend something deep, but it's a certain boundary between that which you wouldn't tell him certain stuff. I tell my best friend almost everything, but certain stuff. he don't need to know.
 Right, cause certain things we...
 My business don't need to be his. He have one of those days when he feeling down, then I come over there, "Blah, blah, blah, don't say nothing to me." Then, he flips out on me, and he wanna tell something that's so deep to me that I'm sitting there looking like, did he really just say this.
 Cause your shocked. You're in shock, and...
 You don't never expect, well anybody wouldn't expect their best friend to spill the beans or say something that's not meant to be told. Me, I would never expect Chris to say anything I tell him. So far, he has been a best friend. He don't tell nothing I say. I don't want to have to tell what he tells me, because we got that best friend relationship.
 Cause a best friend should be loyal, all the way to the end.
 Not when it's necessary or needed.
 That's right. Not when it's necessary, but at all times, right?
 Yes ma'am.
 Okay. Alright. Let me go to the next scenario. You decide you would like to take in a movie, but you choose not to go alone. You finally reach someone by phone, who is just as bored as you, and is dying to be in the company of someone pleasant. You both enjoy yourselves so much, you plan to do this again. Where is that person at on the grading scale?
 I'd say that's a group thing, because they interested in the same thing that you're interested in.
 Group friend.
 Okay. Alright, group friend?
 Group friend.
 Someone that you  know through association. Now, in this scenario, it's just you and that person. And, it could be someone that you met through the group. Or, it could be... It's not necessarily your best friend.
 You just started hanging out out of the blue. You met them, and when your friends not around, y'all started to talk a little and get to know more about each other then.
 I'd say that's a pretty good friend.
 Pretty good friend?
 I could say a pretty good friend, cause I would hang out with a pretty good friend.
 A pretty good friend you can take on the outside of school and you can go do activities that both of y'all enjoy.
 Yeah, because a group friend is normally someone you hang out with in a group. Kind of like we're together. Because, once again, you know that person through association of someone else. But, a good friend is someone that you actually can call up and say
 "Okay, you want to go out?"
 Yeah "You wanna go out? Let's go..." It's nothing between you guys. If its a girl, you understand that she just want to see the movie, and I want to see the movie. We laugh, we joke, we go out eat pizza together, but it's nothing else there. We ain't trying to be boyfriend-girlfriend.
 You can't try to make it more then what it is.
 Right. Then, if it's just a friend, one of your dudes that you hang out with, y'all like the same movie. Like, I... You know... You can't call me, cause we're not on the same level. I'm your teacher at all times. Even though you know I like the same type movies you like, and we always discuss the same type of movie, we're not going to go to the movies together.
 Cause you on the adult level, we on the young people level.
 Right, and we're different types of... Our friendship scale is different.
 Is not even up here, it's...
 Right. Okay? Now... Someone approaches you about going to see an exhibit at the museum. You were glad to hear it, because it just happens to be an exhibit that you wanted to see anyway. So, your parents tell you both that you can go, and you can... The exhibit is in a different city. Your parents tell you both that you can go, and you can spend the night over out of town. What kind of friend is that? Is that just an acquaintance?
 That would probably be with like with my best friend. I wouldn't go out of town with somebody that's not by best friend.
 I ain't going to go out of town... I got to go with somebody that I know is going to speak to me. You know what I'm saying?
 mm-hmm
 Got to be somebody I can trust. I don't have to many friends I can trust. I don't know why, but all my friends is just the reason why I don't get too close to them. I can't exactly tell you why. I just don't. Because, I can't trust everybody.
 Okay. Alright.
 Because, you'll never know who will be your best friend today. and, they might turn on you tomorrow, so you'll never know.
 Okay. So, that's why this is a good piece to do. Because, we got to figure out who is just an acquaintance, who is someone we that we will just see on the hall, "hi, how you doing, bye". Got to figure out who is the acquaintance, and then we got to figure out who is the group friend, who is a good friend, who is the best friend. Because, there's somewhere... There's a fine line, like you guys said, there's a fine line between all five of them, but you got to know the line. You got to know where the line is drawn. You got to know the conversations to have with all of them, because there are certain conversations that you would have with that best friend...
 That you want to tell somebody that you just met in the hall.
 Right! Right!
 'Cause there like, "you just telling me your whole business, but you don't really know my name or nothing about me." That's something... The stuff you telling me, I wouldn't tell you. I would tell it to my best friend, but as far as what's going on in my house, I'll probably let you know I got sisters and brothers, the basic stuff, but not oh my momma's strung out, or doing this and that. Cause everybody's business is not your business. Your business is not  are you.
 That's right. We always got to keep that in mind, because so many times I'll get calls from parents, and they'll say, "So and so... Just talking too much." Especially when people are getting into a lot of issues, or getting into confusion at school, or what have you. And, a lot of that comes from the fact that they don't know when to be quiet, or they don't know what to say, or how to say it, or who to approach. Because, if someone says to you... stand up for a minute. In the morning, when you first come in, and the first thing I say to you is what?
 Good morning.
 Good morning. Good morning, Vincent. How you doing?
 Good morning Ms. Jenson.
 How was your weekend?
 I went to my cousin house, I got to spend time with my Godmother, and I went grocery shopping.
 Okay. so that... Now, you told me... I didn't say what did you do.
 Oh.
 I said how was your weekend.
 It was good.
 It was good. And, that's basics of that conversation. It should not be oh guess what? My momma... My momma and her boyfriend was fighting, and they threw the cat out the window, and then the police came over. Because, at that moment, you have just did what?
 Stepped out of bounds.
 You've stepped out of bounds. You've divulged way...
 Too much.
 Too much.
 You done opened the book before it could be read.
  Or you done read the book before it could be bought. Because, really, I didn't buy into all of that. I didn't want all of that.
 You just wanted to know your name, and how was your weekend.
 I just wanted the generalities of it was a good weekend. And then there are times that we could probably get a little deeper.
 But you not asking for that. You just asking for the simple.
 That's right. That's right. Jeremy, I'm going to ask you.... Stand up for a minute. Jay... 'cause you're a pretty secretive guy.
  Mmhm.
 So normally we got to pull stuff out of you. 'Cause I said to you earlier, I said, "Your Dad called. And what was that about?"
   I was stuck on the river.
 And he said, "I was stuck on the river." My first thought was Jeremy got a boat?  So I said, "You got a boat?" That's what I said, right?
 Yeah. I was over there at the Wafflehouse, over there by Brian Gates behind over there at the apartments. I went to see someone.
 And so he went to see someone, but again, sometimes you got to know when to hold your conversation--
 ...and when to divulge it.
 --and when to divulge it. Because, even though he went to see someone, he didn't give me no elaborate details, yeah this honey, she was... Because a lot of times,
 You don't need that.
 I don't need that.
 You just wanted to know where I was at.
 Just wanted to know where you was at. I want to make sure you was okay. Make sure that your Dad got in touch with someone to be able to say, "Jeremy's okay". Okay? Alright?
 Alright.
 Yeah.
 You can have a seat.
 That was a good conversation.
 Huh?
 This was a good conversation.
 This was a good conversation? You thought this was a good lesson?
 Today was a good day. It was a good day.
 Because some people don't know their boundaries of talking and telling it all.
 Some people just give up too much information.
 Some people around here got to even say what  did to you and everything.
 From here we're going actually, the next thing we're going to discuss is conversations. That's where we're going to go from here. I wanted us to... because, the other day, we kind of looked at friendship, but I wanted to go a little deeper, because I know.... I want us to realize that friendships... they should be reciprocal.
 Not always.
 And when I say reciprocal, everybody understands what I'm saying?
 The same.
 No.
 Should be the same, like how I feel about you, you should feel that same way about me.
 I feel like you trustworthy, but you feel like I'm going to tell on you any chance I get.
 Right. Exactly. But, they're not always reciprocal, but... keep in mind that friendships are always changing. Because, who you put down on your friendship scale on Thursday...
 It change.
 It changed. You gave me a whole different... not a whole different set, but you gave me some different people, and you actually moved some people. Where you had Yolanda as a good friend, she became just a group friend four days later. Okay, and you had valid reasons, and keep in mind that things do change. Just because someone was a best friend last week....
 Don't mean they going to stay your best friend.
 They're not. Nine times out of 10, I promise you guys. When I was in high school, I could..... there were three, there was four of us, and I considered them my very best friends. Now, I don't know how deep they would've had my back, but I considered them my good friends. We talked on the phone, we shared secrets, we shared stuff, you know, when we was sneaking and doing stuff. We shared those things, but today, I really can't tell you where they're at. Now, there was some friends that I met in college that we're still friends to this day. They're friends that I've had since I came into teaching, that I don't know where those people are. Because I've been teaching... when you think of teaching for 18 years, people have friends... people have come and gone in the teaching profession, but I haven't kept in touch with all of them, because there has to be a... there has to be something in common that's going to keep you friends. It can't just be, I see... if I see them just at school, and that's all we ever talk about is school, and schoolwork, and complain, and fussing, and about lesson plans and stuff, then nine times out of 10 those are just my associates. Those are just acquaintances, people that I pass in the hall. We laugh, we joke, but we don't share any intimate conversation. Okay? I'm glad this was a good exercise for you guys, and next time we're going to look into conversations. The type of conversations you have with each one of those type people.
