 I teach in a second and third grade combination class. The students are arranged in grade-level specific table groupings. This allows students to complete any grade-level specific projects together and receive instructions in a manner that's clear to them. I also have a guided reading area. And a independent reading corner. All of the resources the students may need are located around the perimeter of the classroom leaving access to the center of the classroom, the large rug area for all of our class discussions to take place. As well as collaborative group work. Students also have available to them the reading corner area as an area for collaborative group work. They have a listening center where they access books on tape and CD. We have three computer stations where children word process completed writing projects, or they do research on the internet. But complete sentence, okay for that first part. All right, and then someone who's taking turns. So we're clear on the rubric what my expectation is when we walk around. Questions?
If they make a mistake, do you want us to correct their English or ?
You know what, what I think is a nice way to correct someone when they misspeak, and I do this a lot, so you might notice that I restate what someone has said. And that's part of being a good listener. So, being able to recall or restate. Something like, oh, I heard you say, and then you restate it in the way that might be more appropriate. That's a respectful way of being a listener and also a speaker when you're trying to teach and be a role model.
I have a different idea, I think that is.
Okay, so there's another way, "I think that is," excellent. So we're going to just try this out and see how it goes. We're going to try this out again, and practice those cues.
Are we the same number as usual?
Yeah, okay so here we go. We're going to practice. When you get to your pictures, this is what I want you to do. Right now, I have put, I have this image of a whale on, okay can you have a seat? I need everyone sitting next to their partners right now. So what I want you to do is, looking at this picture, I want you to practice right now in your group sharing one or two things that you notice in this picture. What do you see? So I want you to share exactly physical features, and use descriptive language to talk about what you see. Question?  Hold on a second, sweetie, I just called on Jonathan. Just a second. Question? 
We're going to describe with our partner. So you're going to need to turn to your partner. Adam what did you?
I don't really understand what that thing in black is.
You know, it's just a shadow. It's a shadow. This one? It's just a shadow on the picture. It just doesn't look very clear the way it came out. It's the shadow on the image, okay? All right, so turn to your partner. When I ring the bell, number ones share first. When I ring the bell, number twos share. When I ring the bell, I'm going to take some of your descriptive language. Sharing what you see.   
Number twos.  
Okay, excellent. So I'm going to pick a stick. I'm going to go fishing in my sticks. And when I call your name I want you to share either what you saw, or what your partner saw, okay? What was the detail that was shared? And I'm going to write it up on this sticky note because I'm modeling now what you're going to do when you get to your stations. Everyone's going to get a stack of sticky notes and you're going to get an opportunity after you share to record some of your ideas of what you see. Number 10, Cesar.  Sorry? You want to ask a question? For a clarifying question?
No, I was just making a comment. Just I don't like it when there's only like one sticky note for everyone. Because then the first group who goes there puts like every single little thing that they see. And it takes up like maybe three-quarters of the whole paper. And then the next group has like .
Okay, so we're going to solve that problem, because each individual gets a sticky note, okay? And then you're going to choose where you're going to put it. All right, so number 10, Cesar.
 Madelaine said that she saw white spots and one on the bottom. And she said an Orca, and she saw a very long tongue and sharp teeth.
 She actually named the animal, which was an Orca. She saw white spots on the bottom. And what was the part about the teeth?
 and a few sharp teeth. 
Oh sorry, and then sharp teeth. Okay, so I wrote more than one idea on this sticky note. But what you're going to do is after we do the conversation, after we walk through the stations and see the images and talk about it, then you're going to go back and record one idea on the sticky note. And put it onto the picture. So let's try one more. I'm going to turn it over. So look at the picture, and then I'm going to ring the bell, you're going to share, and I'll pick somebody else to share what they see.     
 Okay, so who's next, number 21, Roberto.
My partner says, oh what I said?
 It can be what you said or what your partner said, whatever you decide. His was good?
I said that I see a pod of Orca whales and their dorsal fins sticking up out of the water.
 That was great. So he has two points, that he sees the pod which is how we refer to,
 A group.
 A group, excellent use of the vocabulary. The Orca whale, so he's named the actual type of whale. And he starts looking at the dorsal fins, which is one of the physical features. Not only of the Orca, but of what?
The humpback doesn't.
The humpback, that's right it doesn't have a dorsal fin. So which ones have the dorsal fin?
All the others ones except for that one. 
 There's a couple of other ones as well.
Blue whales don't.
 Blue whales, good, good, good, good, good. Eyes up here. Are there any questions on what I want you to do when you go around to the different stations? Yes, Sarah.
So how many sticky notes are we going to get? Like a couple, four or five?
So, first I'm going to give you a chance to walk around. And then I'm going to come around and I'm going to give you some sticky notes.
 So you're going to let us look at them and then we're going to pick which one we want and put a sticky note on?
Yes, exactly, exactly. 
What's this? This one's cool. I see, some baleen, which means it's a baleen whale. And it looks like it has a big mouth. And the baleen looks like it is, some sort of bendy thing. And on the bottom of the baleen it's scary. And it looks like it has a big mouth which probably means it is a very big baleen whale.
I see a baleen whale with a lot of crushed thingies. And a person's touching it. I'm not sure if it's a real whale that's alive. It might just be an exhibit.
No, Jake.
And , so I don't really think this is something that's underwater. 
It's part of baleen. It's like a baleen whale, there's baleen, but. 
 It looks like a Blue Whale, because it is very big. It also doesn't have any throat looms. and it has just a small bump for it's dorsal . It also looks like it's swimming very close to the top. And that also looks like it's coming up for air. 
I see a whale that a man is touching their teeth.
I'm not exactly sure what type of whale this is, but it's a whale.
I see someone touching part of a whale, and it might be part of a baleen . I see a whale and I think it's coming to the surface for a breath because they cannot breathe under water.
I think that that is a baleen whale because it is, it is white and it's a little bit gray. 
I see a whale that is going up to the surface of the water, and I believe that it's a beluga whale.
I see the whale. I think it's going to jump out the water, and then dive .
I see a big, gigantic, beluga whale with his skin has a couple like dents and wrinkles.
And it doesn't have a dorsal fin.
