 Can someone come up and put number one on the graph? And then we're going to debate about it. Anassia, can you come up and show us where you think one should be? 
 Alright so, what I think is, I don't know if I'm right or wrong or whatever, but I thought kinda one is there. Do you guys see it?
 No 
 OK back, can you give us a reason why?
 OK, well it says David had drived back to pick up his credit card that he forgot at the restaurant, so I kinda think that from home, the restaurant must be close, that's why he took the chance to go back to get his credit card. We don't know if he has money on him, ya know? It could depend on circumstances, but I think that the restaurant was hella close, that's why he went back and went back home.
 OK, wait, wait, wait. Wait, wait, wait. wait. OK. So, honestly who has that opinion? So you think one is at the very beginning
 Mmmhmmm.
 of his trip? OK, can we have someone else draw another number one that is in a different place? Anassia, can you pick someone?
 Overwhelming. You. 
 I put it right here. Right there.  Right there.
 OK, can you give us a reason?
 He's driving and then he goes to the restaurant, and then he's driving away. No! This is the restaurant right here, and then he's leaving and he's like, "Oh snap, I left my credit card." Then he goes back and then he's driving away. That's it.
 OK wait, so whose idea do we agree with? Sidius or Anassia?
 Sidius
 - OK, but we still have to convince Anassia because she still thinks it's at the beginning, right?
 I thought it was at the beginning too.
 You did? Who convinced you?
 Myself.
 Yourself? 
 OK, so if David is driving back to the restaurant, then should his slope be what? What should his slope be?
 Negative.
 If he's going back to the restaurant? Right, because if I'm travelling this way, my slope's getting bigger, my distance is getting farther, But wait, I turn back so my slope has to be?
Negative.
Negative. So do you think one is when the slope gets negative?
 Yeah.
So are you convinced now Anasstia? That it has to be negative for him to go back?
 Yeah.
So are we OK with erasing that first one?  Well I have to erase all of it anyway. 
Oh OK, sorry. OK. So one should be where he's going back, right, where he's going negative, OK? Alright.  Is there a real end to it?
Well we're going to see once we get through them.  Alright.
So, Sidi, can you pick the next person to show us where number two should be?
 No hands?
 I would put two here.
 Can you explain why, Candy? Wait, just give us an explanation.
 Yeah, because he said that his car breaks down so he goes back so the slope is negative. He went back.
 Close to his house.
Yeah, near his house, but then it's near the beginning so the bilaterals have to be near zero. Because the line there represents the distance from his home, right?
 I've got a question.
OK
You know how it says he is told a way to a repair shop near his house? We're looking at his car, not looking at the tow away car, aren't we? So wouldn't it be considered constant since his car is moving?  - So I guess the car is on the tow truck, right? So now, wherever the tow truck goes, the car has to go, right?
 Yeah
 Does anyone have a different place for number two?
 No
 So we all agree that two, no, do you want to put two in a different place? Put it in a different place. Let's see what you think. Put it in a different place, let's see what you think. Go.
 I was thinking of putting it right here. That's what I was thinking.
 That's what I thought too.
 Can you explain why? Why?
 Because he says that his car broke down and was towed back to his house. So I was thinking that the first sentence, so his car broke down. So if he was not going anywhere, then the time was going then constant, so if, as you see the time, his speed never changes while the time is just going down. That's what I think.
 That's wrong. 
 We don't say that's wrong, we say, "Well, I disagree. Well." So convince him otherwise.
 Because the car is still moving, and if you look really, really closer at the graph, the last point isn't directly on the girl so we can assume that since it says the the repair shop is near his house that the ending point would have to be somewhere near zero. Also, if it was constant, that means he would just be in one spot, but it's clearly saying that he's being towed back towards the repair shop, so he's in motion, like the slope is showing distance and not speed. Well the graph is showing that the slope is going somewhere.
 So can I say two things? One thing, so it's a different interpretation of this problem, right? So if he was broken down and the car was just staying there, then would this be a good place for two?
 Yes.
If the car was just staying there because distance is not changing or is changing? It's not changing, right? Because time is going on, but distance is staying the same. However, number two says he's going to the repair shop close to his house. So is he just staying in one place? No, right? So he's gonna go back home, so if he's going back home so this slope would be negative or positive?
 Negative.
Negative. And it's going, here's home, right? So where does he go back home? Or very close to home? Here, right? Are you convinced Danny?
 Yes.
OK, let's erase the other number two. But Danny, thank you for being brave because I could understand that interpretation. Alright, Danny, can you pick someone to put number three on the graph?
 OK, number three is over here.
 I disagree.
 Wait, wait.  We haven't even heard her explanation. Wendy, what's your explanation why?
 Because it's stopped for gas and got a quick bite to eat it's kinda constant here so it can be stopped.
 So why not the long one?
 Because he's in the restaurant, I suppose.
But then
So if one is here, if one is here, it has to be in the restaurant then, right?
Well then one is over there, so then why would three be all the way over there?
One is here, right?
No, no, no. One is all the way at the beginning.
No.
Sorry, that's "Y."  But then it says that he got a three.
Yes, but it's here.
Yeah, he ate there, so wouldn't that be the one? Like wouldn't that be where he gets his gas?  Number three said that he went to eat, but it doesn't say where did he eat. Maybe he just eat at that restaurant that he mention about.
 Yeah, maybe he went a bit farther, and said, "OK, let me go somewhere else," so that's why.
 So what did he do here?
 Eat and gas. 
It doesn't take that long to eat. 
 One hour? People take a bit to longer to fill up on gas and then they can't just eat while they're getting gas. Oh let me eat while I'm getting gas.
 OK, so are we going to take a longer time at the restaurant or a longer time at the gas station?
 The restaurant.
The restaurant. So do we want the slope to be zero for a long period of time or just for a short period of time?
Short
Shorter than wherever you pick where the restaurant is, right? So we haven't gotten to the restaurant yet, have we?
No.
No, OK. So could three be the place where he stops and gets gas? Could it be?
 Possibly. We don't know if quick bite meant one hour or meant half an hour.
Or maybe it meant  five minutes?
Yeah you know, you never know. So if we interpreted five minutes, gas and quick bite, quick sandwich. Could we put three at that place?
Yes.
Why?
 Because the slope is almost constant for a short period of time.
 I think that at three, he went back to the restaurant to get his credit card.
 Maybe the gas station is near the restaurant. 
 Why you make this so difficult?
 That's possible, though, right? I'm like thinking of putting at the beginning?
Here?
Here is four.
 Wait, wait, wait. Don't go on four yet.
 But I think the three should be before one. Because you can't just eat in the restaurant and then you eat a quick sandwich, 
 OK, we're going to do this because I like the debate you're having, but I want groups to think about it individually, and then we're going to come back. but I want to put one thing for sure on the board. OK, so If, if, if, if. If, If this is definitely Let's say this is definitely where David stopped to eat. OK, so this is where David is eating.  Eating as in, in the restaurant?
Eating at the restaurant, yes. So here David is eating for a long time at the restaurant, OK? A long, long time. So that's the longest, is this the longest time where the slope is flat? Yeah. So we're all gonna agree right now that this is where David is eating at the restaurant. So this is where David is eating at the restaurant, can you put all the other numbers in a logical place? Because I hear you guys talking about logic. Like he can't go to the gas station before he does what?
Goes to the restaurant and gets his credit card.
OK, so, I see that's one logical statement so, in your groups, I'm gonna give you five minutes for this. Can you put one, two, three, and four in a logical place and have a good argument for it? OK.
