 Inner circle number two. Again, this was a question that was asked in a multitude of ways and this is where we're going with this: Why did the accident happen? The accident of May 10th, 1996. Why did it happen? Any questions?

Yes, the May 10th, 1996, thank you for clarifying, where everybody died, well not everybody, but a lot of people died. Why did it happen?
 Because...  
Okay, so, I think the reason the accident happened was maybe those people just weren't prepared for for the climb. They thought it was going to be they're just going to go up with a guide and some other people they were just going to go to the top and come back down and it was gonna be an easy thing and they didn't expect the challenges that they were going to face.
 I agree. They probably thought it was gonna be a walk in the park. Turns out that they weren't ready and it was no cake walk and it turned out that some of them it was their last day on the mountain.
 You were talking about they weren't prepared and all that. But they also said that the guide had never been through a storm like that and that that wasn't normal. And I was kind of taken aback by that, because I was like, if there's a guide who's going to be guiding me on a life-threatening thing I would want them to be, seasoned trainer you know...
 Exactly, I would think the same thing. That the guide should be prepared for that kind of storm unlike how he was and it turned out fatally for the rest of the crew.
 I agree with all of you, but during reading the article, Krakauer also mentioned that he said that it wasn't really anyone's fault... because people were so... not in their right minds. They were tired and injuries and how thin the air was, they couldn't breath very well So when they looked at the sky and saw the storm coming,  they didn't expect it to be as bas as it was, so nobody could really prevent it. Anything to add to that? 
I agree, and I think that they were just having so much fun that they weren't really paying attention. 
 I think that they would've all been prepared if they had been watching the clouds...  
 I know you mentioned the clouds but why weren't they watching them? Why do you think they weren't watching them?
 ...they didn't think that they were actually serious enough to actually 
 I agree with Matt, that they were so... they wanted to get to the top so much they weren't too worried about looking at the clouds, 'Oh okay, we can make it back up and  make it back down, maybe before.' Not expecting  trouble along the way. 
 Yeah I agree. I think that they weren't really prepared. They were too wrapped up in what was going on to think  about the downfall and what was happening. They're tired and probably weak, they didn't have safe... they weren't really all there to think  about what are the consequences of this and what would happen. Like the guide, if it were me,   I would have made sure they had this... that you're  gonna help me out more than not really being able to.
 Anything you wanna say, Krystin?
 Well, I said that this quote at the top it says that, "Ambition has a steep price." And I think part of like how you guys were talking about how like the guides weren't too prepared and weren't qualified but, I think that, well and the author mentions this too, that climbing this mountian is... it's taking a risk and your ambition for going up this mountain already when  you're putting your life on the line, there's nothing really anybody can do to tell you the qualifications that you have to have to survive, it's just basically putting your life to chance, and so... that's what I really got  out of it... what do you think?
 I agree, I think that , then  not as many people would've died. They should just listen  to what they're told and and not risk their lives  to do something that .
 I agree with that No, but I think that what Krystin said makes a lot of sense that people were just too tired and 
 I agree but I think it's understandable because just the thought of climbing the biggest mountain in the world is extremely... cool. and I would definitely want to go up there soon as possible, and not worry about the weather, like go all in or don't go at all
 I agree with   lost or injured I mean but I'm like half way there  go ahead and accomplish what I set out to do and I think that  would've caused anybody to not really notice the weather and the risks involved in what we're doing. 
 I agree with what Ellie said a little while ago heard they should have turned around, but they probably thought that this was going to be probably what could have been a once in a lifetime chance to be at Mount Everest I mean it says that they caught about  safely but they should have have taken it more serious and not kept going risking their life... 
 One thing I noticed is that they relied a lot on each other but they didn't go back and check themselves and I didn't understand why they didn't go back and and like, when the one guy says, "there's no oxygen here, there's no full tanks." Why didn't they go back and check that themselves? I mean I would trust that person but yet again, if my life on the line. I would be checking it. Does anyone else think the same way? 
 If my life were at risk, I wouldn't be relying too much on other
 If my life were at risk, I wouldn't be relying too much on other people. I'd be a little weary about something like that.
 I don't so much disagree but I came up with something a little bit different. I didn't really think that people relied on each other that much at all. Who knows if all the deaths that happened could have been prevented but people were too tired or too injured or, there was always something and everybody was more concerned about getting themselves down the mountain. In a way I would say that it was selfish mission but in another way... I mean if it was my own life, I would be out for myself rather than trying to help somebody else and I think we saw that, at least I saw that a lot happen throughout the story. It's a choice between am I going to help that person and risk my life and they might not really pull through this, does it matter? Or am I going to get down this mountain and survive?
 Some people were relying on others, like at the end, someone was trying to help  was trying to help , he tried to help her down,  she grabbed his arm, and he tried to pull her down. But she just let go and died. 
 I agree with Erin too. I mean I think that right now wouldn't be able to. You would think about yourself more. Whenever you're out there and and you're with the same people for that long of a time, and you're doing the same thing, that you become  sort of closer... They would mean more to you then than they do right now. You'd be more willing to sacrifice something, to survive, to help them give them another chance to get out alive too. 
That's definitely shown at the end of the article when he's  talking about how he can't live a day without thinking about the lives of those people that he was so close to that were lost  and how he couldn't even come to grips with their deaths for a very long time.
 I agree with Erin, I think there was a lot of, at the end, I think he was talking about the  there  was a lot of blame involved and why couldn't we prevent this, and it brings me back to what you guys said, I think they really wanted to help each other and I think that they wanted to do something but there was nothing that could be done in some cases. I thought it was kind of sad actually dealing with that kind of grief where you couldn't prevent someone's terrible death. 
 Tyler, what do you think about this? Like did he grieve, or even just the fact that... who they were  relying on.
 Well, what strikes me   
 All right, outer circle, what'd you notice? What'd you notice?
 I noticed that people were   and books and just kind of in inner circle and I felt  that that really helped them to get the instructions.
 Okay. Blake, what did you notice?
I just thought that it was more and more, like Erin really led the conversation and Krystin really led the conversation and I think that those were like the two main ones, but like Levi and  Elliot and Alex, they all also communicated a lot but there wasn't just one person who was talking. 
 Okay, so there were definitely two leaders, but there were other people that were contributing as they went along. Okay, good. Anthony.
 There were some well-developed conversations.
 Well-developed conversations, what do you mean by that?
Like Erin would say something and someone would build on it, then someone else would and then another topic and new questions and another topic. 
 Yeah, did you notice- what was the question  they started with?
 Yeah, we got a little off-topic.
 No you didn't. What, what was the question  you started with? What caused the disaster? And then you went into something totally different but, did you have good conversation about that? Absolutely! You guys really started focusing in on that life and death and relying on somebody else for your own life. Okay, I really like how-- I mean it wasn't like you were talking about cookies and then all of a sudden you were talking about climbing Mount Everest. It was definitely very connected to what you were saying. Dorothy, what'd you notice?
I noticed the conversation just kept going and it didn't stop or anything it just kept going from one thing to another.
 Right it kept bouncing from one thing to another. You could see, like steam coming out of your ears, they were all impulsive. Blake?
I thought that also, remember Erin said, "you're relying on someone," and Krystin's like, "well I don't agree." backed up Erin and other people backed up Krystin and there was people who didn't 
 Yeah. Is it okay to disagree with the people that are sitting around you? Absolutely! But you need to do it respectfully. Like Krystin did. Krystin said, "I don't exactly agree with you Erin."" then she proceeded to say, 'Why?'  And Levi was over here, he was nodding his head and shaking, 'yeah.' All right, great.
 I thought they did a good job of not having any dramatic pauses, they always had something, someone would pass on to someone else 
 They paused occasionally but it was not pregnated pauses. You guys ever heard that before? It wasn't a pregnant pause, it wasn't a big spacey gap, okay, Anthony?
 Pretty much everyone talked
 Pretty much everyone talked. Yeah, pretty much.

 Yeah, did you notice that? They built on to what other people were saying, okay? They agreed, I still heard I agree a lot; but then they told us why they agree with what they said. All right? Anything else you guys noticed? Yes?
I think that we looked at our  more, because they  had wider subject that they talked about. Eventually it became narrowed down that is was kind of like you have to look for specific details. It wasn't the whole story, it was more like a paragraph or two and so you need specifics to deal with that.
 All right. Anything else?
