 Five, four, three, two, one, stop. I'm going to follow the same norms you are, so if I want to talk, I'm going to have to raise my hand. Does anybody want to start us off? Sort of an initial response, or something that's been on your mind, or a place we can go in the play to start this conversation?
 In the last act, when Emilia and Iago, or Iago's been caught, and Emilia is piecing together all of these things that Iago's done, how it all works, and she's telling the others around him what he's done, he keeps telling her, "Be quiet, this isn't your place to talk, "you shouldn't be here." But, whereas most stereotypical women would have just kind of followed what their husband wanted, and just you know, kind of been in the background, Emilia actually stands up and says what she thinks is right.

 Yeah, okay.
What  also talked about was how Desdemona kind of juxtaposes that in that she's like the very stereotypical housewife, to the point at which she refuses to even like blame her husband for killing her, so we kind of, it's interesting how those two characters are just...
 To touch on the racism part, I would have to say it's not, and at least if it is, that isn't the main focus of the play. I'd say that it's focused more on these complex characters and their web of lies, and the plot itself isn't focused on, if it is, I think  because I don't really think it is.
 I kind of agree with Chloe. I don't think that Othello is a racist or sexist play. It does have racism and sexism in it, but that's because it was written by William Shakespeare in a time when that was the norm. You can't really look at it as a modern person, because we think of racism and sexism so differently from the audience it was intended for. They thought of it as more of the norm, so it does seem more normal. Like it seemed believable and normal to them, because that's just how their society was.
 Then it also kind of looks at like how racism sort of caused it, like Iago hates Othello, and one reason that he gives is that he's black and he doesn't deserve his position, and he kind of uses race to his advantage to do bad things. So it's kind of looking at, it's not racist, it's looking at racism and sexism, and saying like how they can be used and manipulated, you know?
 Yeah, I kind of agree with you. I think this play is really about like taking advantage of people any way you can. So like if you have something on them, like they're a different color, or if they're a different sex, then you can use that to your advantage by like putting that as an excuse almost, to take advantage.
 Let's return to that. Raise your hand if Iago was your favorite character in this class. Come on. I mean, this is a, I have to say, I agree. I would raise my hand to that question, which I find troubling, because I certainly agree with some of the opinions that I'm hearing here, that we have this interesting contrast between Emilia and Desdemona, as two different ways women can live with male violence, and we also have this examination of how racism and sexism are used as part of the plot to take down Othello. But at the same time, I have to say, I think that it feels to me like the play is set up for us like Iago more. Iago talks to us, he lets us into his world, into his mind in a way that nobody else does. So I'd almost feel like we can't blame ourselves as the audience for identifying with him, for secretly making part of us rooting for him, or he even made me sort like glorying in his intelligence and his capacity for manipulation and just his power. And I wonder what we do with that, because if you walk away from this play being like, "I love Iago!" Then aren't you also kind of saying, in a way, celebrating what he's done? Do you agree with me? Disagree with me?
 I think his ability to like, his like logic, and how he like plans things, like how he like manipulates a lot of situations, and how he like schemes to like use people's like baggage, I guess, to his advantage, is kind of like I guess like the way he uses it isn't a good way, but like if you could use it in a different way, I guess it like could be viewed as like a good thing. So, 
I think there's a difference between like celebrating what he's done, and just appreciating like the amount of thought and like intelligence that he has in using it in a bad way, because like you can like Iago, and like him for different reasons than, "Oh, I like what he's done, "I like how he destroyed this person." It can be just, you know, "I realize that "this is a very smart person, "and someone I really would not want to be on his bad side." But like you just sort of, you realize like how much, I guess yeah, I'll just use the word appreciate again. You just appreciate like how much, you understand his mind, and it's just really interesting, rather than you love him.
Yeah, I think it's more like, sometime's it's fun to like root for like the evil character. Because you wouldn't actually do it, like if you play video games like Grand Theft Auto,  Like you kill the hookers, it's not like--  you would have to do that, it's just that it's fun. 
 Oh my God! 
 Well, it doesn't surprise me that Iago's the one that most people come away from the play with being like, "Yeah, he's so great, he's so interesting," right? Because like he's the only character that you actually get to know. Everyone else just kind of like dies. They get drunk and like stab people, or they cry. That's pretty much what everybody else does, and then Iago's the one who like lets you in, lets you know what he's thinking, when he's bringing specific elements, like with each person in the play, he's different from each person, and you can see that through the play.
Well, as she was saying, like how everyone else was crying and like going crazy, or like either having an awful time or having a good time, like they still trust Iago, even though he's standing there not doing that with them. I mean, just like the way he's able to still convince them whenever he's not, he doesn't seem like he's on the, like he convinced them that he's on their side, but he's not actually doing everything they are, or he's not really doing anything to show them that's he's isn't feeling what they're feeling. Alex?
I have a quote, I guess. It's at  around there. "And their palates both for sweet and sour, "as husbands have, what is it they do "when they change us for others? "Is it sport? I think it is. And doth affection breed it? "I think it doth. Is't frailty that thus errs? It is so too. "And have we not affections, desires for sport, and frailty, "as men have? Then let them use us well, else let them know, "the ills we do, their ills instruct us so." So it's kind of like talking about how the men control the women, and so I guess like that's like the sexism of the day, or like of that era, and like this is Emilia, she's talking to Desdemona, and she's talking about how like men control them, and all their thoughts are kind of implanted by the men, like Emilia, like she got the handkerchief because her husband told her to do that, and they're all just really obedient and everything. Chloe?
 I mean, I think that, yeah it has to do with the time period, as far as the sexism in the play or whatever, but I mean because that it's just the way it was, but I think that when you look at the female characters in the play, like Emilia, she turns out to be one of the most influential characters, and she's the one that takes down the bad person. It's her that takes down Iago, pretty much, because she tells him the truth, and then something that none of the men could do, or even question. Then the other thing I would say is that the women's loyalty to each other, especially Desdemona to Emilia, because it's back earlier in the play, I don't actually have it, but Emilia, I mean, Desdemona sings a song earlier in the play, something, "Willow, willow, willow," some more stuff about the song, and then when Emilia's dying, she sings a line from that exact same song, and she says, she references, "my mistress death." So I think a lot of it shows how the women stick together.
It's also kind of like, I mean, I agree with you, and I mean it's not sexist, it looks at sexism, because I mean you see how Desdemona is the stereotypical woman of that time, and she kind of does what her husband tells her to, she doesn't rebel against him, she is completely loyal to him, regardless of how he treats her. I mean, he's hit her, and she just accepts it. Even when he kills her, she takes the blame and doesn't rat him out, and it just kind of, you have problems respecting her because of it. Like I mean, she's a good character, but you just can't, it's really hard to respect someone who just accepts everything that is done to her like that. Then you have to juxtapose it with Emilia, and she was a really influential character, and is able to rise above, and kind of try to take down her own husband and go against it. It's kind of looking at sexism and saying like, you know, which is better for you? Which do you like more? Look at how the sexism and the roles of women has affected Desdemona, and then how Emilia's been able to rise above it.
 Can I jump in?
Yeah.
I definitely agree with you, but my thoughts are also going back to Act I, Scene III, because I think at the beginning of the play, Desdemona is very much not a stereotypical woman. She has married the man she loves, defying her father. Knowing her dad wouldn't like it, she ran off and married him anyway. When Othello's talking about how he won her heart, it was by telling the stories of the wars, and it's actually  very interesting, because it says that Desdemona would seriously . She would be very interested in these stories, even to the point where she wished she had been born a man. Then, when Othello says, "I have to go to war," and the Duke says, "Let's like Desdemona "stay at her dad's house," Desdemona says, "No, I married this man "to be with him. Let me go to the war, also." So at least at that scene, I think that she's a model of a very, very active woman who wants to go to war with her husband, she wants to be with her husband. When Othello comes out in Act II, Scene III to stop the fight between Cassio and Roderigo, Desdemona comes out, too, and says, "What's going on, what's wrong?" And Othello says, "Come away sweetie, let's go back to bed." Right? I certainly agree that there's a passivity in Desdemona by the end, but I don't know if I see that so much at the beginning. Go ahead.
 I agree, I think that like sometimes Desdemona wants to be the stereotypical woman, and then like other times, she wants to be the like "rebel," kind of, because like Mr. Proctor said, like she completely rebels against her dad at the beginning, and then also like, she's not the stereotypical woman, because like every single man like in the play has admitted that she's the most beautiful woman, that they want her and all this stuff, and so she has some power over them, too. But yeah, I just think it's interesting how like there are scenes where she's the complete like stereotypical housewoman, and then other times, she's like completely passive.
Even though it's been brought up that she defied her father to marry Othello, she's still, I feel like she's still very like part of that time period, as far as the role of women, because even though Othello wasn't her perfect husband in the eyes of her father, she still jumped from the control of one man, her father, to another man, her husband. So, Tanya?
 Okay, so about Desdemona, I think that like even though she did that stuff, she still was a stereotypical woman. Like we said before, those women, they're supposed to be obedient to their husbands, so like whenever she does kind of like rebel and do something different from, or like kind of jump in to the conver- like Mr. Proctor was saying, like those examples, she's doing it for Othello. She jumps in, like she goes to war to be with him, and then she comes in like whenever he's in trouble. And then, the thing about Emilia is she's doing stuff for herself. Like in Act IV, Scene III, yeah, that's what we read, she's talking about how it's just like, she would cheat on her husband once. It's just like she says, "The world's a huge thing, "it is a great price for a small vice."
