Okay, so for social needs, we said that their social needs are being met because they... 
They look like the slave traders can talk to each other because they speak the same language, but the slaves don't, so their social needs with each other aren't.
So you feel your social needs are being met?
Yeah.
And how so?
Because our person can talk to...
'Cause you have people to talk to, don't you?
Yeah.
Anybody agree with that?
I agree, because our person--
You. I am. You're that person. Don't say my person, 'cause that's you.
I can talk to other people.
So, you do have some social interaction? So, there's some disagreement there as social needs are being met or not.
No hands, Nita, jump in.
We cannot 
So your social needs are not being met?
Yes, our social needs are not being met because we...
They do not understand each other meaning, like, deaf? Or they cannot talk?
So how does that make you feel? Go ahead and talk about your emotional needs now being met or not being met.
Our emotional needs are not being met right now.
I think I disagree. I think ours are kind of being met.
I agree with Lauren's. Ours are being met because they're more happy that they're gonna get a lot of money.
You're the person.
But our person is kinda serious...
like he doesn't really want... 
So as far as what Nita's already talked about? Emotionally? So are your emotional needs being met?
He looks angry.
You feel safe, you're good to go.
Yeah, 'cause we know we're--
She's like, I don't really want to go, but...
They want the money.
But we want money. We want all the money. Well, it's the physical needs anyway. Ours--
Ours are not being met.
Ours are being met 'cause we get weapons and everything, all good food.
I agree. And ours are also being met.
You don't want to mess with them.
Yeah.
I disagree with both of you guys because ours are not being met at all.
Definitely not. We are, like--
We're starving.
Starving.
My needs are not being met if I'm Ashley, because I'm scrunched together, I'm uncomfortable. My physical needs aren't being met because it's crowded and my muscles ache. Does anyone agree with that? That their physical needs are not being met?
I agree that Ashley's physical needs aren't being met because they are scrunched together and it looks like they're in chains and they don't have much--
 Are your physical needs being met?
Yes.
Our physical needs are being met because-- 
I disagree with you because I think you have space.
Our physical needs are being met. We're not, like... 
You're in good shape? 
With your physical needs being met how does that link to emotional and social needs? How do those kind of all go together? Talk about how those all go together overall and how does that make you feel, based on this picture. You're that person, so use first-person point of view, and discuss how those are all intertwined. And then add to your conversation, as far as I know, some of you did the bottom two as far as not-- These are what are being met and these are not being met. So make sure you cover those two, okay? How they all intertwine or if they do. And then you can discuss these bottom questions, too. Even if you didn't get to them with your partner, jump in now with each other. I'll be right back.
Alright, so...  My emotional needs are being met. I'm earning the money that I should be and I feel confident... 
All of our emotional needs, all of our needs are being met. 
Why are the clothes taken off and why are the--? Just in case
Emotional needs are not
they do jump overboard?
being met. It looks like they're sad because, because we look depressed. And you can just tell it by the faces and what they look like. Our faces and their-- and our body language. And there was-- and we're scared because we see the weapons and we don't know what they're gonna do with it to us.
So think about the cause and  effect of that.
Our emotional kinda was being met.
Are the people standing up--
No.
But how are they not chained?
Still all of our emotional needs are being met.
They're running away.
They don't look worried, they look kind of like they're looking at the scenery kind of.
They look calm.
In their expression they look calm, yeah. They don't look worried or anything.
These people, but the people that are sitting down... 
I disagree with Alan, 'cause they look calm and confident.
I kinda disagree with that because they look like-- That's why they're all facing different directions. They're watching for anything suspicious.  They're all looking in different directions.
They aren't smiling like they're looking at beautiful scenery.
There's like little sections in between, so like Grayson said, if they do jump overboard they don't all fall over and tip the boat.
Do you think these people are all in one group? No, let me rewind and say my question again. Do you feel that these people all everybody in this boat was represented by a perspective from your discussion you just had? Do you understand my question? I'm not saying it very well. Were roles of all these people in the boat given to at least somebody in this group?
Yeah.
You think so? How were the roles different?
I think there's bosses and then there was slaves. Like slave traders and them.
Kind of serious, like they just got their reward, and these people, they look kind of like chained--
I don't think they're running away.
I think they're running away.
I think they're going to a bigger boat, 'cause these people look like--
I think they're like--
That's not the full canoe.
And they're just taking the slaves to the big boat.
So let me say my question again. Let me say my question again.
Why would slaves take slaves?
They're slave traders.
They're not slaves.
How do you know they could be slaves or they could be slave traders?
Let me say my question again. I want you to think about your role and what was just said. Do you think that all roles that I gave this group were, I'm sorry, are on this picture?
No.
Oh, you're changing your mind? Discuss that. At first you said yes. Discuss that, why maybe not all the roles that I gave you were on this picture. No, do not say your role yet. Ladies and gentlemen, we have about one minute.
I think that they are people in the tribe and they're giving their slaves as slaves.
You know how we were doing that worksheet, the graphic organizer? It said that most of the time, they would just trade other villages for their slaves and take those ones.
Well, I think--
'Cause they could still have their own slaves.
I think this is a slave trader... well, not really like a slave trader, but like
'Cause the slave traders
a slave boss kind of?
were from England, so I think they'd have white skin.
I think they're with the other people--
But remember African-Americans were also slave traders.
Because they're not chained and they're standing and the other people, like slaves, are all tucked together and depressed.
I think that... some European traders tried to persuade other slave people to say, like "go get your crime people, go get your crime people..."
Slaves.
Yeah, "your slaves "in your own tribe, and then we'll trade you--"
Gold.
A bag of tobacco.
And those helped capture... So even though they don't have white skin, they might be slave traders and they give, like, 
So we have two different maybe perspectives of slave traders, is that what I'm hearing you say? One being?
They could have also been threatened to work.
Europeans.
Hold that thought, David. One being?
Europeans and one being African.
Well not really African-American...
'Cause in the book it said that the African slaves, not the European slaves, but the African slaves, their slaves were kinda like maids.
So I want you to think about the role that you were given. And I asked you to look at that picture from that perspective. Is it possible that that specific role I gave you has many different perspectives itself?
Yes.
Alright. I want you to wrap up your conversation if you have anything else to add, and then we're gonna continue tomorrow.
You're not gonna tell?
Not yet, no. I changed my mind. You think you know. You think you know.
We still have the cards.
Aw, rats.
They did it.
