So, you're saying here, why did you pick it, why did you pick the two points that you did.  Okay, why.  Are they random?  No, you just tell me why you think those two. What?  Okay, average? Okay. So I'll come back here in a minute, I'm gonna tend to this table.  What, okay, what is? I don't know what I would there. 'Cause they have the, what is the all right, what is, and what is.  You guys, it should say what is the slope, okay. It should say what is the slope.
It represents the y-intercept. Yeah, it said what is the . 
That's what I'm saying.  people.
All right, I'm just sayin' it would .
Okay, three. Can I have your attention real quick please. All right, once you find, I see most of you have yours in point slope would you also put it in slope intercept, okay? Because that'll help you with question number three, okay then I've got through question number three. Go 'head and find your answer and .  Here we have, what is this?
Linear.
Okay, is that a line?
No.
Okay. Were you supposed to draw a line through it? 
Okay, what does it say down there?  Okay, why you did number five before you did number one, it said draw a line through, right? This is like a, not a line, okay? A line is straight, so you wanna draw a line straight through there. But, before you do that, I want you to answer and do one, two, three and four first.
Should we erase this?
Uh yeah, but don't worry about it right now, I want you to work on finding a, what two points did you have?
Um, .
Okay, and why did you get that?
Because .
What's easy mean?
Like one plus one. 
And what kind of slope did you get? Oh, you haven't done it yet? Okay, I'll get back to you, all right?
But 72's .
What's number two? What is the slope.
What is the slope value.
What is the slope. What is the slope. And then I was gonna, I actually had started out with what doesn't, mean in a situation, . 
But when you .
Y equals one and x, yep, okay y = 1x. Now, how do we find, what's the ordered pair here? 
Okay, that's the slope intercept form.
Oh, that's what, got 'em mixed up.
So what is it though? And you don't have point slope. What is the ordered pair for y-intercept?
Is that the one where you have parentheses with two n and then another one that's like--
No, that's point slope. Okay, I just want the y-intercept. Okay, .2 is the y-intercept in this equation. y = mx+b.  Right, it's two. What did that tell me?  That's what the y-intercept is. What does it represent, the situation .  Okay, now wait, it's-- 
Okay, is it for two people? So  is for people? Okay, now if you were to look at your graph, which we haven't done yet. And where would negative two cross? Though I'm not sure that's . 
Now I'm also seeing something here about, . Why do you have a two here?
Hello! 
So 30, 32.
I know, right?
Making me erase! 
That's okay.
So it's three, six, nine, 12, then all this other junk?
So you can get up there and get 33.  Always thinkin'.
Six is six, eight is eight.
I'm sorry. 
Three seconds. For every, how many people? For each person, three seconds a person. Okay, no that's  person, according to... your data. So it took three seconds to pass from the church, right? Now, what is minus 24 ? 
Okay, that's a year, you have y-intercept is negative 24, and it represents?  Okay, I want you to do one  graph. 
Okay yeah, whatever your Y is starting at. By the way, this is a . They want you to draw a line . Okay so, what is ?  Time in seconds, right? Where does the y intercept?  It crosses x, okay? It crosses x. The y-intercept crosses.  The y-intercept crosses y. Okay, the y-intercept crosses the y. 
Okay, so y is gonna cross the axes that is talking about what?  Okay? All right?  It's crossing, talking about time, okay? 
It's supposed to say what is the slope, the slope is wards for s.
You should move your line so that it follows the dots. Okay, I'm gonna come back here. What's the problem?
Time, .
They're confusing me.
All right, so number three, you said the y-intercept is six-elevenths of a second, is that what you're saying? Six-elevenths seconds? Okay, and you said that was what?  Okay.  All right, what were the people doing? People were passing books. So six-elevenths, okay, means that it took six-elevenths, were no people ? What was happening during--
Each person to pass .
So was each person passing the book at six-elevenths?
That's how long it took for them to start passing.  Six elevenths of a second.
Okay. So, who passed the first globe. I mean, who's was that?
Angela.
Okay, so he did what?
He had to run around, and then to come back. And here and turn, a person.
Right. He had to leave his desk . Okay now, is that an average throw? Okay, what's your average that you're talking about?
14 seconds for every 11 men.
Okay, so we might wanna just change that to a decimal, okay? So, just find out how many for one person. Just change it to a decimal. And you might wanna change six-elevenths to a decimal so you can have an actual  Okay? That's great, all right. That's okay, does everybody understand what Jade was saying?
I think the reason why she did that was because .
We had to make a line.
Okay now, . Okay, that doesn't mean make a line graph, .
Oh!
Okay. Are you ?  Drawing a straight line, a straight line. Now we just wanna look at what you got here. Okay, what did you put .
One.
One? And what does it mean?
I got 1.27672767.
Okay, and what does the slope on the line? Now don't worry about your line right now, just answer these questions. What does the slope on the line, your slope of one, represent in this situation?
One second per pass?
Okay, all right, you're gonna do one second per pass.
Averaged--
Per--
Person.
One second per person to pass the book. Get back, right? Okay. So what does your y-intercept represent?
If it's at zero with no passage, that's what the seconds are, that's what the point is.
Okay, say that again?
If there's no passes, like the time starts at negative two seconds, I guess. I don't know how to explain.
Did you get a negative?
Yeah.
Now, is that possible?
No.
No? Okay. Why might you have a negative? 
Sometimes it drops.
Okay, but, if you have negative time, okay, can you? 
 She'd be like, oh yeah that was negative three seconds ago.
Yeah, negative no, that was three seconds ago, but it wasn't, so you got a  point two, right, seconds. All right? Now, let's just think about, and you said it was what, negative two seconds, but . He wrote people. Okay, when was there a time when there was zero people?  
 I mean in this situation during the book pass! When was there zero time?
Never.
When it's .
When, okay. When they start moving, but somebody was moving.
I think it's zero passes.
No, all right, what does your y line represent?
Time in seconds.
Time in seconds.  So the y-intercept rounded out, that's what? Time in seconds, right? So it's a time, when was time when the books were not being passed?  Somebody had to all right, walk over and, pick 'em up, and then somebody had to walk over and put them.
