 Does that include slaves?
 Yes
 Does that include women?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 So how are we supposed to take uneducated people's opinions when they obviously don't know what's gonna happen?
 Because a lot of people in Russia-- I mean, if the Russian's knew how to read, they would write a song. If they knew what was going on, and they were smart enough, they would obviously write a song about it.
 I think John Locke had one more thing to say, is that right?
 Yes, okay, and to answer your question about the government. The government was created to protect people's rights, it wasn't created for you to abuse power and just do what you think you need to do, they are only for them, and it's not doing what it needs to do, then yeah, the people do have the right.
 People aren't dead, so obviously I'm doing what I need to do, and I'm protecting them.
 If that's all you care about, then that would just be easy not to let people die.
 Obviously they're not having problems where their lives threatened. We have all these, like... If you're, wherever you live... Anyways, wherever you live, if your king or queen wasn't doing what they thought to protect you guys, and you had all these invaders coming in, then you could argue being mad at them because they're not protecting you and doing their job.
 That's when you know they're upset.
 Plus, you're saying that your people aren't educated, but they're educated enough to know what their rights are, and how they should be treated, so...
 I mean, you can think you should be treated in a certain way, but I could say I think I should be able to slide on this floor right now, but I might not know if I slide on this floor right now, I'm gonna die. But because I'm not educated in that kind of way. But your king or queen is educated in that kind of way, so they're not gonna let you do stuff like that.
 We're not asking for stuff like that, we're asking for our natural rights.
 I know that they,   What's the word? The end result? Conclusion. I know the conclusion of you guys getting your natural rights, and the way that you guys are acting for them. In a way, I'm gonna get you guys what you guys need to get, your conclusion is gonna be a whole lot better than what you guys are hoping.
 So what's the point of having your natural rights if you're going to abuse the law?
 It doesn't mean you're going to abuse the law, it just means that you're gonna be more cooperative towards the law.
 You're attributed to a beggar if they don't give you your natural rights. It's like a two-way type thing.
If they give it to you, then you're gonna be happy about it, and you're gonna want to follow them and listen to them. Instead of trying to revolt and kick them out if they're not gonna give it to you.
 Alright, so we say government is a good thing, bad thing, or kind of in between. Let's go around the room real quick. What would you guys say?
 I would say government is a positive thing because it stopped some starving, and it keeps everything in place.
 Okay, good.
 We're in between. Because it's there to protect your rights, but if they're not gonna be there to protect you, then they shouldn't be there at all.
 Okay, so it has to be done in the correct way?
 Government is a good thing.
 Any explanation why?
 Because if you don't have a government, then you aren't organized, and if you're not organized, then you're, like, chickens would be in your home. 
 We think that philosophers, they write what they feel about us, and they don't do anything about it, and they don't understand where we're coming from. "You philosophers are lucky men. You write on paper, and paper is patient. Unfortunate Empress that I am, I write on the susceptible skins of living beings." Meaning that they write on paper because they can put out they opinion like that, but we have to be responsible for all the people in our country, and we're trying to do what's best for them.
 In your opinion. 
 Frederick?
 We think government is interesting because we need a government to be organized. But government also does a lot of bad stuff.
 We think the government is completely necessary along with religion, because it brings unity to the people.
 And I think the laws and religion kind of go hand in hand because... I wouldn't consider myself a Christian, but others probably would, because of certain stuff I write in books, that's why they consider me as a heretic, but the bible says, "Thou shall not kill." Killing someone is also against the law. Thou shall not steal is also against the law.
 I feel the government is good if it uses the right power, basically for their rights and things. As long as-- It should be there, we feel it should be there, but it needs to be used appropriately.
 We believe, sort of,  that the government is a positive. If you didn't have a government as a base structure for your country. If you didn't... The government perhaps is a positive. Due to the fact that the government, helps you if you need it to an extent, I agree with Catherine the Great in the fact that it sort of really helps with the territory. I've been interviewed by many people, and specifically saying, to many people I've said it, that I'm capable of saying whatever I want. So my country is there, and  I get to do whatever I want
 If you were the king,  you'd do whatever you want to. Theoretically. Alright, Voltaire.
 Pretty much, the government is an abomination. I mean, there's way more bad  and nasty leaders than there are good, lawful public leaders that do good stuff. Too many leaders take advantage of their people in their kingdoms, so I think they should just all go away, start over with enlightened, total... 
 What about slavery?
 What do you think about slavery?
 What do you people think about slavery?
 What about slavery. Anybody have an opinion? Is slavery good bad or otherwise?
 I wouldn't say slavery is a negative. then again, I wouldn't say  that it's a bad thing either.  I guess you could say, mostly slavery came from Austria due to the fact that if you get in trouble, with another country, and they sand to the Austria you're pretty much going to be a slave for the rest of your life. You pretty much work for them. You work for the Pope himself, and you work for the Roman Emperor.
 Voltaire?
 I think slavery is a necessary evil.
 A necessary evil? 
 Well, we disagree  with , because we see everyone  as equals, and think everyone should be treated equally, and it's part of their natural rights such as freedom.
 Exactly, that would  be considered one of their natural rights. 
Teacher] Rousseau? 
 Serfs, which were similar to slaves, very good. Last comment there,  Thomas Hobbes?
 I don't think we really have an opinion on slavery, but if the king decided to have slavery in the country, I think we should respect that and do it for the betterment of the country.
 Respect the authority  of the king?
 No piling up...  ...because that's what  slavery is there for.
 Okay. Very good. Any last minute comments? I think we're almost out of time for our salon discussion. I heard a lot of good ideas. Does anybody have any last minute comments that they want to add? Yes, Frederick?
 A lot of things that we have to say I didn't get... Three things of everybody's opinion. All you guys are really self... You're not sinners or anything. For lack of better words. And I wouldn't read them, meaning I would probably do anything to get support from my people, and I'd do anything for my people. Like my dad would do anything for me, he raised me well. And slavery and natural rights and all that mumbo-jumbo shouldn't be from you, because you're not them. You're not, just as you're not Voltaire, and I'm not Thomas. So you can't overrule anybody else, it's not right.
 Very good. Excellent job, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for attending our little salon here. Hopefully we learned some new ideas, and got to hear some other opinions of people throughout Europe, so let's give yourselves a little round of applause.  Alright, you are now done with the salon. You can take your little parts if you want and put them up because you are no longer those people, you are now you in modern day times. Back to modern day times. But I do have some questions, we are not done with our discussion, but you are not longer your person, you are back to being you. 
Teacher] We are not done,  and I'm going to ask you your questions now. Please listen. What was the purpose of a salon? We've talked about this from what you've right here. What was the purpose of a salon?
 Exchange ideas.
 Exchange ideas,  any other purposes?
 Sometimes like, Joseph did over there, but to find out what people thought of you.
 Okay, to find out  different opinions. Okay, maybe see something from a different side or viewpoint.
 It was a devised to discuss music, who gets painting time...
 Okay, so it has an artistic point to it as well.
 It was just another way for us to learn about taking notes and stuff. Like research on our person and then hearing what the other people thought.
 But as far as back then, is what we're thinking about.
 Oh, back then. Oh.
 Yes, you were right  about what you said.
 Just to exchange ideas and go back until people like it.
 Would you say there were effective back then?
 Yes.
 We haven't talked about results, we kind of left off talking about these people and how they talked about things and came to the salon. Do you think this is going to be an effective method of discussing?
 The conversations we were having with them over there, like how they didn't think that we were listening to what the people were saying and how we were just gonna stay the way we were and stuff, but actually they got to hear our thinking about moving to where we need to go, it's gonna take them a little longer to get there.
 Okay. Do we have anything like salons today? Do we have salons today?
 Yes.
 What happens at salons now? 
Teacher] Right, so it's not so much political all the time in exchanging ideas about government stuff, but they're still kind of socialization and gossip going on. Is there anything that we have in place, or anything in our society today which you can discuss opinions, especially about government or problems that you might have in life?
 Um...
 Since salons don't really go with that, but... 
 So if you have a problem with your country or with the government or with something that's going on, we don't have a salon to go and meet like this and talk with people, but is there anything that we do that? Or any other thing? Another way to voice your problem, if your dissenting and you have a different agreement, or a disagreement with the government, or with anybody, anything. What can you do?
 Don't we have press conferences?
 What do you mean representatives? Write letters. Write letters to who?
 The government.
 Congress, the government, okay.
 They also have environment issues and worldwide problems.
 Worldwide problems. Okay, that's kind of similar. Where different people come and talk about their issues, their problems, and maybe how to solve them.
 You kind of have different levels like, if you have a problem with, like, if it's about the school, you go to the school board.
 Okay.
 President, or people who are trying to be president, they have the debates on TV.
 Okay, good. As far as being an average citizen, what can you do? Say there's an issue with the world, or an issue in our country, or an issue in our city that we want to see fixed, what can we do, you think, to maybe, go about fixing that, or trying to get that done?
 Protest.
 Protest. Is that allowed? Are we allowed to protest?
 Yes.
 Were you allowed to protest back then?
 It depends on where you live at.
 Depends on where you live. We have a different government now, right? Back then it was monarchy, now it's more of a democracy. So what we're seeing here a little bit, a little bit different method and a lot more opportunity.
 There's a town like...
