 What you just said. They're going to go back together.
Well, I've glued them down so they can't. The green and the red charts are locked down in place. They can't get back, but I've taken up the orange field.
 Wouldn't it generate a new field?
They're going to make a new field and that new field will be?
 
Say it again. Oh, like the earlier drawing?
 
We can actually say a little more than that. In this vicinity here?
 
They'll be trying to pull each other back together. So, we're going to end up with a field that's exactly opposite . What we did was they move around. 
 As long as it's still running.
They move apart until the field is basically nullified.
 Let's look at one more example.
 Do you have one more potato shape in there?
 Most people.
 Most people, right. So, let's start for this last one, let's look at this shape and say that I observe fields coming out like that. Write down a couple of observations before you make your prediction. Based on what you're seeing in there, what can you say about what you see? 
Are those lines all supposed to be straight?
 Yeah. To the best of my drawing ability they're horizontal, parallel lines. My drawing was perfect.
Mr. Shields, what ?  
 They're going in two directions.
 The orange?
 Yeah, the orange one.
 Like a very large plate.  
 It could be just a potato in there and that's . 
 The thing in your hand.
 This one?
 Yep.   
 Okay, let's take a look. Chris, can I get you to shut the door to keep the noise down? We'll give you a break in about 10 minutes or so. It's nice to have the extra period here. First thing before we talk about this new one, I failed to address Hannah's question and good insight earlier. Yes, . The orange lines in here will be drawn into the negative and they're going to bend and  will be coming outward   from the positive end. So, you're definitely going to see this sort of pattern. I think people saw a little bit of that in the simulations. Anytime you've got a conducting material... Anytime you've got a conducting material the field lines always intersect exactly perpendicular with . It's a conductor. So, it definitely makes a difference when you call it a conductor and look at what happened in the field. Let's talk about this new one. There's a couple of observations. Ian give me one observation and Claire give me the second observation.
Besides the fact that the lines are straight.
 No, that's a good one. The lines are straight. Very important. Claire?
They're going in opposite directions.
 Exactly opposite directions. Okay, Hakim give me another one.
Well, the lines are coming out of it.
 Okay, they're coming outward not inward. Good.
To indicate that the .
 Okay, so that one we know from the very first piece here. The net charge is positive. The fact that they're horizontal.
They indicate like a plate or something.
Yeah, is it like two parallel plates? 
 Two parallel plates? So, where would you draw them? Above and below?
There are two on top.
 So, like above and below like this?
 Four plates.
 Four plates. Let's make it 16. 
But if you had a plate and the thing is neutral or no net charge and then they would just...
But what if you had one positive plate straight up and down the middle, then it would push away on both sides.
Two positive plates .
Two plates sounds twice as good as one, but I'm not sure that it is. Four plates sounds even more appealing. An infinite number of plates sounds fantastic. I'm hearing good ideas here. I want you guys to think about what it would look like in different scenarios. So, two positive plates.   Okay, two positive plates and I'm looking at the vicinity in the middle here, is that right? And do I want my two positive plates to be on the sides?
 Negative plates.
 Well, negative plates, okay. Two negative plates on the sides like this so the field would look like what?
Bend.
 Okay, we're getting a bending because if I draw it here--
But you still have to compare .
 It'd be like this kind of a picture?
It'd still be bent. Greater than the distance.
 Okay, so you've got... So, based on that you've got some things going on above and below that should be penetrating into that shape.
What about two infinitely long?
 Two infinitely long plates. Both negative? What would the field look like? Forge the potato shape. What would the field look like in the vicinity of two infinitely long, evenly charged negative plates?
Wouldn't they go ?
 If I take a single positive test charge and release it right in the middle, what would it do?
 
 What if I release it a little bit to the left side?
 
 An infinitely long plate. We derived this one before, a single one. Remember the equation for the field or the general shape of the field from an infinite plane?
 It's constant.
 It's a constant, exactly right. Brittany didn't even have to look at her notes on that one. But you remember, what was our analogy to an infinitely large plate?
 
 Yeah, gravity on the earth here, you know, big flat earth. I don't care how far above the ground I am, it's the same number, it doesn't change at all. That's exactly right. So, an infinite plate, the field is some number, another identical infinite plate, it nullifies it. So, in the same charge, okay? Well, that isn't going to work.
 Infinitely far.
Infinitely far away from each other.  When Brittney says it's a constant, even if you go to infinity, I guess it'd still be a constant, either that or you go to zero.
It would be two sets, one set like that except that they are horizontal and vertical and they're infinitely far away where .
Two horizontal plates like this?
Yeah, because . 
I don't think that's going to work either. Ben, you're getting agitated back there. And what are you saying?
We were just talking.
You're saying there's no way in the world they can be infinite. Is that what you're saying?
Yeah. 
 
You can't have an infinite plane anything because you're defining the shape?
 So, that's a good question. When I've got the shape here, do we require that the thing that I'm talking about fit inside of the shape?
 No.
 I'm going to say no. Okay, so does that change your answer? Okay. I think we can and will look at situations where the surface... And remember this is all leading up to that Gaussian surface idea we mentioned on Friday. Where the Gaussian surface does not fully enclose an object. Like an infinite plane, we need to be able to study those even though I can't fit it inside of a box. So, we have to expand a little bit to the possibility that whatever it is is inside of there.
An infinitely long positive plate right in the middle.
 Right in the middle. Is that what you said about seven minutes ago?
Yeah.
 I tried to ignore him because I didn't want you guys to get the answer too quick. But I do want to acknowledge him . Yeah, tell me if this makes sense and why? Somebody besides John and Ian. It doesn't make sense that I've got a plate and this is slicing my potato in half and it's a positive plate.
 Would it have to be infinitely long?
 Much longer . 
If I don't... Now, I'm not very good at drawing in 3D so is the potato lines, are they diverging this way at all? I can't tell. They're uniform this way, parallel lines this way, so we know that it has to be infinite this way. And not have divergence this way .
 
Well, I didn't draw any lines coming out of the . Do they have to be parallel to the ones that are on the board or would they be diverging? That's going to change the answer that you give. If I draw another red line that's coming like this, that's clearly diverging from this red line. So, I'm going to assume that every line, for this problem, every line that I draw is parallel and then we'll get a new .
 Perpendicular with the plate.
 Yeah, perpendicular to the board. And then all positive coming out both sides. Very good. Alright, I've got one more drawing on there I want to hit and then we'll just say some fantastic summary words and then I'll give you guys a break. The last one here, instead of the three dimensional shape, now all I've got is a single sheet of paper. And this sheet of paper I've got, I noticed...  I noticed parallel lines, arrows, coming straight out of that shape. Write down a couple of observations on it quick and then see if you can predict, based on what you observed here, what and where, if you want to, what the source of the field lines is. What can we learn from the electric field lines?  
 They're all coming out parallel in one direction.
 Yes, parallel in one direction.  One direction. They're parallel this way and they're parallel this way also. So, they're normal to the surface everywhere.
Are they coming from the other side?
 All I see is lines penetrating this way, so I could actually draw them like this and that's fine.
Do you know anything about the other side of the plate, like is there anything there?
 It's a two dimensional structure and the arrows penetrate.
Oh, okay.
 Yeah, they're not diverging at all. Yeah, uniform, orthogonal, all that good stuff.     
 Into the paper?
So, they're coming out of here?
 They're going into here and coming out here.
Oh, okay.
To the differences, that's a closed shape. This is a two dimensional surface. If I had wrapped it around like this it would make a difference, right?  
Okay guys, let's see what we've got here. I'm going to ask Paul first, Emily second, and then we'll see if Michael can go for the trifecta.
Oh no.
 No pressure. You can be wrong, it's alright. Paul, what is, based on your observations, what is the thing that you think is the source of the electric field here? Where is it coming from that it makes this pattern in this object, on this sheet?
I think this is like the second or the third example we did when it was passing through.
 Where they're just passing through?
Yeah.
 So, then where do you think it's coming from? What does that tell you about the source of the electric field?
I'm not sure.
 You have more to say?
No.
 Emily, give it a try.
Since it's positive on this side?
 Yup.
You can see that there might be a positive charge .
 Okay, so if I had a positive charge on this side, I would get electric field lines going like this? That's correct, okay.
Or if you had a negative charge .
Ah okay, so you're answering two things, which is pretty overachieving, but I like it that you're saying that instead of a positive back here, it could be a negative over here. Okay, now there's something incomplete about what you're saying. The positive here versus there could be a negative here, that's a great insight that it could be one or the other, but Michael's going to help us out because you're a little incomplete on what you're telling us.
They have to be infinite.
 Infinite. Infinitely strong charge.
Infinitely long, whatever, a plane.
A plane, yeah. A plane back here that's infinitely large, distributive charge that's positive. That's the only way to get a uniform field here. Can it work with what Emily was saying about it could be a negative over here? It could be an infinitely long thing here? There's one more option. Does anybody ?
It could be intro .
 That this piece of paper here is neutral?
And you could just put a new positive charge.
 But be careful. Any positive charge, if I start off with the very first drawing, and I look at what happens when I put a sheet here, the field lines are like this.   They're diverging. I'm not having divergence here at all. So, it can't come from any old point source. We are going to assume that this thing is neutral though. Okay, that itself is not... It's just capturing the story of what's going on. Hannah?
Could there be both a positive and negative along the plate?
 Yeah, you can have both. You bet.
 That seems like a little bit of overkill, but as long as you're making your sheet infinite in size, you might as well make two infinite's.
You have all your infinite .
 That's right. And two parallel plates, two plates that are parallel to each other, one positive, one negative, is a very common thing. So common in fact that it's on my tie today. Oh yeah, there it is. See that?  Hakim, do you have a question?
Okay, so it's the positive plane that's standing or negative plane?
 Yeah, the infinite plane.
The infinite plane. I was about to say that. That it would be infinite.
 Yeah, I think Michael was saying that it would probably be. Not the charge distribution, the sigma, how much charge per unit area will be some number, but it would just keep on going on. Chris?

 Yeah, you know, that would be a lot.

 Reasonably speaking, if something goes to infinity, all of your homework is easy. So, there's no purpose for me doing that. What is the answer? Infinity or zero. It's got to be one. Infinitely large in size with a uniform charge distribution does add up to an infinite charge, but it's distributed infinitely far away. So that's okay. Now, remember the goal of this as we were getting into this today, is to figure out what can we learn from an electric field? And here's the thing. In the first three or four examples or five I guess for some people, if I take a closed surface I can learn a lot. Not everything necessarily, but I can learn about what's inside of that. Infinitively, is the first one positive?
 Yes.
 Yes. The next one that I drew was negative, absolutely. This most recent closed surface, it had to be a positive plate shoved in there. This last one with just a two dimensional structure to measure with, to gauge what's happening, I don't know everything. We've got a lot of ambiguity. And this is why with Gauss' law we need to use this closed surface. We need to look at it from all sides. We need to be fully envelop in what's going on or else we might miss something. We'll go back again. The equation that I showed you last week, we'll put that on the board in a few minutes when we come back from a break as well as looking at a couple of scenarios, just conceptually how we can draw these things to capture all that field. Go ahead and take a break and be back in five minutes.
