 ... tilted towards the Sun, you're closer to the sun, which is heat, which means you're going to be warmer. When you're tilted away from the Sun, then there's less heat, because you're farther away from it, it's going to be colder. That's what changes the seasons.
 Once again, it goes in orbit. Like you said, the closer we are to the Sun, or the father away, once again it goes back to being an elliptical orbit.
 I think that tilt causes the seasons, and the closer we are tilted to the Sun, that means it's like Summer or Spring, then if we're tilted back, it's Winter or Fall.
 I'm kind of understanding what you guys are saying. Because I'm thinking of it as like, say, like the globe that's sitting right there, say that Ben was the sun...
 You can use that if you'd like.
Say that Ben was the Sun, the Sun would be shining at the bottom of the globe, because the globe's tilted. So, there wouldn't be much Sun at the top of the sphere because that's the most tilted away from the Sun. So, it would cause Summer lower and on the other side it would cause Winter.
 Why are you shaking your head?
 I disagree. I think the Sun would hit more on top than it does on the bottom, because like Antarctica and stuff, always cold, and it's at the bottom. So, I think it hits more in the top and in between, like by the equator. Because as you go down South, it's more warmer, but still, if you go down, way down to Antarctica, it's totally freezing, they don't get no sun.
 That's not right. Because... there is like sunlight in Antarctica and stuff. It's just 'cause like, the latitude and longitude, and like, because... Because, Antarctica's at zero degrees. So, it's cold down there.
 I want to know, when the Sun is going in its orbit, if it just goes from this to this, like boom, or if its turning and its like facing the Sun like that, like, I don't understand that.
 Okay. So, our question is what?
Like, when you're going around the Sun, and its on its axis like this, tilted, and it goes around, eventu... Does it just, like, go like that? Like real quick? And then it's like shifted so the bottom is getting more light, and that would put us in Winter?
 What do you think, Kaylie? You haven't said anything. Do you think that our, our tilt's going to just change?
 No. I think it's like, whenever we're rotating, like it goes around the Sun in the orbit?
 Can I show... She's saying that as it's rotating, it's staying the same, it's just that it's changing because you're changing position from which way the Sun is.
 Can I show an example with the globe?
 Yeah, please.
 Say the Sun was in the middle. Say, like the globe, is right here. Say we're right here, it's Summertime, really close, and the Sun's right here. And as we go around, like maybe, like we're right here and this is Fall, and then we go to Winter. And as we turn this way for the Spring, and then we're back to Summer again because we're going around the sun, so...
 But , the only problem with that is we're still going to be tilted away when it, when we go over towards the Sun. We're still going to be tilted away, won't we?
 Well the Earth's always tilted.
 Yeah, but we'll be tilted away. In the Summer you're tilted towards the Sun.
 Let's go back to, does the tilt change? Okay, so we're definitely talking about this tilt, and I'm guessing there's a lot of kids that are a little unsure about the tilt? Yes? So, if you think you understand the tilt, help everybody else understand. We're not getting this tilt in what you're talking about. So, explain it the best way you can, and help each other, okay so... "I don't get this tilt." Does it just flip flop? What do you think, Anna?
 I think it stays the same?
 What about you, Shana? You haven't said anything yet.
 Well, as the Earth goes around in its orbit, it shifts, just like a little bit that way, you're like closer to the Sun. And then during the Winter, we're father away.
 Is that how it is? We're closer towards the Sun in the Summer and we're father away in the Winter?
 Yes.
 Who doesn't think that?
 Could I try something with the globe real quick?
 Yes!
 Could I borrow Nick, to be my Sun? 
 Yeah. Be his Sun, Nick.
Come on, Sun. Go out there and stand in the middle.
 Pretty dark Sun.
 Yeah, you are.
Okay, we're gonna say that this little pin here is where the Sun is hitting today. All right? And we're spinning, woah, spinning that way.  It's spinning, it's spinning, it's spinning, it's spinning, but it never, it never tilts back towards the Sun. That's what I don't understand, does it just go like this? 
 This is a really good question. This is a really good question. Now I want, wait, don't move yet. I want, go ahead, be the Sun still. And I want you to walk around and explain to people what you're talking about. Number one, show us the tilt.
Okay, that's the tilt.
 Show everybody the tilt.
Okay, everyone, this, Nick move, you're in the way of people.
 Just duck down, just crouch.
And this is the way of the tilt, the way it's tilted that way. But as we go around it's still tilted that way. And this side here is still far away, so what? It's going to stay Winter all the time? Or is it just going to like flip? And be like, "Hey guys, look! Now we're Summer, but we're upside-down." That's what I don't understand.
 He has a very good question, okay? His question is, why is, what hemisphere are you talking about?
The Northern Hemisphere.
 Okay.  So, why is the Northern Hemisphere always tilted towards the Sun, how he's walking away? Because his argument is, that...
 Oh, I have it right here.
 Go ahead.
 It says, "Because the Earth's axis is slightly tilted, when the North Pole is laying towards the Sun and South Pole is laying away from the Sun. And when the South Pole is leading towards the Sun, the North Pole is leading away from the Sun." It says, "As a result, the number of daylight hours in the Northern and Southern hemisphere are not constantly recalled because the Earth is divided in two halves of the hemisphere by the equator, the hemisphere that leads towards the Sun has a long day and short nights." Does that have to do with anything?
 See, I...
 Wait! Does that have to do with anything? That's Sabrina's question. Does that have to do with anything? So summarize, what you just read to us.
 Does the tilt have, like also have to do with like, the days, and like the short days and short nights?
 Does the tilt have to do with the short days and long nights, and long days and short nights? Shawn, you're shaking your head yes. You think it does have to do with it?
 Say yes?
 Yes?
 You think it does have to do with it? Why? Who could help him explain, why would a tilt change the length of day? Move over, Lucas.
 Because, like it's if, like it'll be indirect Sun if it's tilted away from it? And instead of like... I don't know.

I think it is because I think another thing in the direct rays because, the way we're tilted, it's the number of daylight hours because of the less Sun, as much of the Sun because of the tilt, and how the Sun hits it when its on its tilt? I think, like, see how it tilted that way?
 No, why don't you use it? Why don't you boys sit down and let... Pass that globe over to Byers, and let him explain.
What I think is... You know how it's tilted this way? Maybe it'll tilt the opposite direction for the Summer. Like instead of it being tilted towards this, it'll tilt the other way for the South. Instead of the North be showing, the South would be showing. That's what I think.
 Where is the Sun? That's what I'm not understanding.
The Sun would usually be in the middle.
 You need a hand?
 Yeah.
 Okay, go ahead, be the Sun again.
The Sun's in the middle. And that's why if it's tilted this way, we're getting our Sun, but I thought if it would tilt the opposite way, like instead of being tilted this way, it'd tilt that way, then the South would get more Sun?
 Okay? So, how... But what you're asking is the same question as Lucas.
Yeah.
 How does that other hemisphere become tilted towards the Sun? That's what you're trying to figure out. Whenever Lucas walked it around, the whole time, what hemisphere was pointing towards the Sun?
 The Southern Hemisphere was pointing towards the Sun. And the Northern Hemisphere was pointing away from the Sun.
 Ben?
 No, I thought it was the Northern was pointing to the Sun, and the Southern was pointing  the other way.
 But, it remained constant the whole orbit.
 Yes. That's what I couldn't figure out, like how did it just like, did it like flip around and all of the sudden...
 Maybe the Sun?
 ... it changed?
 What do you guys think? Does the Sun move? JJ, you haven't been in here yet.
 I think like every day, it moves a little to the other side.
 Wait, what does?
 The Earth.
 The Earth moves everyday?
 Yeah, it might.  Like it tilts every day.
 It tilts, the tilt is changing? Is that what you're saying? So, the tilt changes? What were you gonna say?
I think the... It... The... Earth, like doesn't move, like when it stays in one spot, I think it might like flip. Like kind of like, just go around, like...
 Can you show us? Do you wanna show us?
Sure, I'll try.
  ...I was gonna say maybe like, as it's, as like the Earth turns around, maybe it like, tilts forward every so often and backward.
 So you're telling me the tilt is changing though and it flips?
 Yes.
 Okay, so what are you saying?
It just goes around like this, and eventually it just like, spins around.
 So, it spins on top of its rotation?
 Yeah.
 What do you think, Brad?
 I think, yeah, I kind of agree with him.
 Wait, with who?
 with David. While it's like going around its orbit, it just like tilts.
 So the tilt is changing?
 Yeah.
 What do you think, Alec? You haven't said anything yet.
 I don't agree with him. I think that it spins while its moving around?
 Don't raise your hand, you don't have to raise your hand.
 Only this, like what Nick just did, or maybe every day it goes a little bit, and tilts like this. And the Sun hits more of the Southern.

 It's like, everyday, goes a little bit, little bit, little bit, so where the South starts to get more Sun. Because like when we're in Summer and Australia has Winter. So, when we're in Winter, Australia has Summer. So... And it's in the Southern half and we're in the Northern half.
 Wait! 
 Tiffany, you were shaking your head. Do you agree with what he's saying?
 Sort of, yeah. Because, if... one spot on the hemisphere gets more sunlight, the most likely it's gonna be warmer than the other. Like he was saying, when we get more sunlight, and the temperature's warm up here, the temperatures in the Southern Hemisphere get a little colder if they don't have as much sunlight, and not as much warmth.
You see what I mean? Like say I'm right here, the Sun is tilted, so you see how the Sun's right here? And then it tilts  a little bit like this. We're still getting Summer sunlight, but Australia's getting more sunlight.
 I have to agree with what JJ said earlier. It tilts everyday.
 So the tilt is changing? You think that the tilt is changing? Morgan, you think the tilt is changing?
 No, I don't think it's changing. I think it's staying the same, because even, I think the rotation helps, because if it goes around the orbit, even though its rotating it helps. Like... Nick, you're the Sun like, and the axis stays, and when it rotates, the Earth rotates, and it's like kind of, it like helps us. I don't know, like indirect sunlight? I don't know. Something like that.
 I can show what she means, I think.
 Go ahead.
 I think it's also about the gravitational pull. Like, when it goes around farther there's less gravitational pull.
 As it goes around farther, there's less gravitational pull. Okay, when you do this, Grace, please explain to me what it is. So, that everybody here that's watching can try and make sense of what we're talking about.
 I think what she's saying is like, say Nick's the Sun again. Since the Northern is that way, I think she's saying is, it doesn't rotate but this is, but we're kind of going around kind of like this? So, then it changes. So now the Southern is towards the Sun and the Northern is that way. So, now it's changed.
 She did something very different in her orbit. Did anybody catch that?
 Yeah, yeah.
 Like she, it didn't move, it just went around like, around the Sun?
 What do you mean it didn't move?
 The Earth stayed still and just moved at one point.
 It didn't do that.

 Okay, let's do it again, okay? And I want you to make sure that, number one, everybody sees where you start, and everybody sees what happens to the Earth as she's showing you how it's going around. So, explain to us. What is this? Where are we starting?
Okay, we're starting out this way with the Northern towards the Sun, and the Southern away from the Sun. And as we are rotating? I don't know  if all of you guys can see this. But as we're going around?
 Stop there.
 It's not moving?  So, since it's not moving, now the Northern is  kind of like facing away, and the Southern is facing towards the Sun now?
 Keep going. And then just make sure that the camera can see what you're talking about as you go around. Okay. So, did everybody see that? Who doesn't understand that? Who didn't understand what she did right there? Okay. So...
 Now, I don't understand, actually, wouldn't it actually have to stop rotating and then it would have to rotate on its axis, and then start rotating again?
 I'm not sure what you mean by that.
Like... you spun it like this,
 All right?
 But the Earth is going like this the whole time. Would that end up stopping, and then it go like this? Or is that still happening?
 It's not turning like that. It's just rotating around the Sun.
 Wait, Sabrina, you had something to say. Okay. So, here's what's happening. Lucas is a little confused about your explanation, okay? So, we just have to go through it again. What did you have to say, Sabrina?
 The earth doesn't change its tilt. It stays like an exact same position, but when it goes around the Sun, it gets like different ways, like the Sun hits it in different directions which causes different weathers.
 Okay, wait, why don't you try to show him? Maybe it's just a different person. Maybe it will help explain it, okay? So, the more people we can get information out of, remember, the more we're gonna understand. So, start and tell us what's happening. And just make sure the camera can see what you're doing.
 The Northern Hemisphere is towards the Sun, and the Southern is facing away. So, this causes colder weather, and up here where it's facing the Sun causes warmer weather. So, when it goes around the weathers start to change and then when you get it around here, the Southern is facing towards.
 Wait, is the Southern facing towards?
 The Southern's facing towards the Sun. And the winter is facing away. Which causes it to be warmer down here and Winter up here.
 Who can help her out, because...
 What I don't understand, is...
 Go ahead, go ahead.
 I don't understand it because it's still changing from day to night, but then it's shifting so wouldn't it have to stop spinning and then shift?
If it stops spinning we're gonna die.

 Not necessarily.
 Okay, wait, Ben, start from the beginning and explain what's going on. Nick is our Sun still. Put your legs in so he doesn't trip. Northern Hemisphere is towards the Sun, Southern's away. And it's still spinning,  it doesn't change...
 Okay. And so stop there and what's happening?
 The Southern Hemisphere's towards the Sun and the Northern's away from it.
 And what happened to the tilt the whole time?
 It didn't change.
 It what?
 It didn't change.
 It didn't change, it stayed the same.
 But that made more sense. Like, I couldn't figure out why it wasn't spinning, but now I do.
 And then it keeps going. And then it just goes back.
 Now I understand.
 Okay. Let's use this model, and try to figure out, where are the seasons happening? So, where do we live, Anna?
 We live... Yeah, where he's pointing.
 What's that called, somebody?
 America.

 North America.
 North America, let's get bigger.
 Northern Hemisphere?
 What Byers?
 The Northern Hemisphere.
 Okay, so we live in the Northern Hemisphere. Right now, what's happening?
 It's Summer.
 It's Summer in the Northern Hemisphere. Does everyone see that?
 Yes.
 Yes. Anybody not see it's Summer in the Northern Hemisphere, see it?
 Yeah.
 Okay, so...
