Viewing my art room from the front corner I have a storage area on the right hand side. Entry to the art room and paint storage is right by the door. Uh, a cart for paint supplies that can be wheeled out into the room. I have a large white cabinet for all of my paper and on the other side storage for student art work. I have a dry erase board, a digital white board and a bulletin board for instruction for students in the front of the room. We often sit right in the center of the room. There's also a birthday chair there for the birthday person to sit in. My tables are shaped around there in a U-shaped formation, each labeled by a colorful paint splot hanging from the ceiling. Indicating the table there's a red table, orange, yellow, green, blue and so forth. Each table has organized supplies in a painted shoebox and red caddies left on the tables. In the very back corner is the teacher desk. Two computers to the left of that as well as a laptop that's hooked up to the digital whiteboard. Across the back of the room I have work space for our student teacher and also to mount student art work, and store some ongoing large artworks. On the back wall I have more storage: metal cabinets, rolling cabinets and a light board that we can use to copy work from. And directly below me is our class pet this is where Shelly the turtle lives and she is currently hibernating.
Like rabbits and dogs, dinosaurs. And kitty cats And puppies So first thing we are going to do today is look at pictures. Listen so that we have time for working. I need everyone to put in bubble. We are going to look at some pictures that artists have made long, long, long ago. The very oldest art in the whole world. Are horses and bulls inside of a cave. So the very first artists way back during cave people they were making art about animals. About horses and animals that ran around that they saw in their environment all around them. Put hands down, put hands down.
...dinosaurs ...yeah
Well that was after the dinosaurs. But I'm looking for somebody that would be able to point out an animal that they recognize up here. Does anyone recognize some of those animals?
Yeah
Izaiah do you? Izaiah? Izaiah with a "Z." Do you want to go up and point? Come up and show us some animals that you recognize.
Only animals who... only, only...
Listen! She's the teacher right now. What's it?
Kangaroo
What else? Let her answer.
Fish and turtle and, um, crocodile and a duck.
Yeah and some kind of a bird. Good job. Did you notice that these are all made with dots? That's how some artists who live in Australia... Kimberly come right here in front of me... Turn around so you can see. That's how some artists in Australia make animals. And they kind of show what's inside of them, don't they? It's really good that you notice that, Izaiah. Do you have a comment?
I know all those animals
Good so you were naming them right along with her? Raiden, why is your name up, your hand up?
You said last time we have to finish our .
Oh we do have to finish those you're right. We will, don't worry. Okay. Next. What kind of animal is that?
A horse.
A horse. You know what it says at the top? It's a horse of a different color. Because what color is it?
 Blue.
Kind of like the "Wizard of Oz?"  right there. Why, boys and girls? Why is the horse blue? What do you think? Why is the horse blue?
To make the horse beautiful!
To make it beautiful? Why else would it be blue?
Maybe because it... ?
here's another one.
It's a unicorn horse isn't it? What? 
hhhh... what? I'm curious...
Izaiah, why would an artist make a horse blue?
Because it might be a unicorn.
Well, it could be. Why?
Because it might be a different kind of animal.
Yeah, it might be a different type of animal horse.
Have you ever drawn a picture and maybe just used your imagination? And used your favorite colors in it? How many people do that sometimes? I know I do. Sometimes I might make an animal but instead of making him brown, maybe I'll make him pink and purple and yellow.
Ooooooh!
And make him a little bit more imaginative.
Sometimes at my dad's house all by myself.
What else do we have?
Another horse.
Here's a fancy prancy horse. Now the other horse was kind of looking down, but what's this horse doing? What's this horse doing?
Jumping.
Flying.
He's walking or galloping, isn't he? He looks... Look how he's standing. Look at the two horses. If you had to tell me how this horse is feeling...
 Sad.
Why do we think sad? Emma why do you think sad?
Because he's looking down.
He is looking down, isn't he?
Maybe he's sad because his family just got killed by another animal.
Oh, I hope that didn't happen. He could be sad about something that happened. What about this horse?
 Happy!
Why Melanie why do you think he looks happy?
Because he still has a family of his own.
Because why?
Because he still has a family of his own.
That's not why! That's not why!
Izaiah, you might have a different idea than Melanie. Isn't it okay to have a different idea?
Yeah
So, I need you sitting, Kimberly and Regan, you both need to be sitting right here where you can see hun. Izaiah so it's okay to have... what was your idea about why he might be happy?
Because he's walking and his family is going to get killed by a pack of animals.
Oh my, but that wouldn't be very happy would it? You think he looks happy? Are there any other words you can think of to describe him? He's prancing around. Usually if you're in a bad mood do you walk around like this? With your head up?
No.
I used to do this, too.
That's not prancing, that's stomping. But prancing is when you have your head up, isn't it? Kimberly! Kimberly! Right here. Come over here by me.
Maybe... maybe he was doing this because  on his arm. There's something on his arm.
Oh, it could be like a bandage, couldn't it? It might just be the way it's painted like his knees are a little bit lighter than the rest of him. Is that what you're noticing? What are you noticing?
 but one of my family died
Awww. That is sad, isn't it?
Really really really old.
 
That happens sometimes, I'm sorry. 
...family died in a fire...
Guess what? Guess what?
Shhhh... Kimberly if you want to earn your star card today you have to come sit by me. Brandon if you want to earn yours you have to be sitting on your bottom, not crawling on the floor.
You have to color inside of it? 
You might want to draw his shell first to make it really big.
Look at mine!
Can I see?
Good job! Make these lines really, really dark.
Hey, look at my turtle.
Go back over it like this.
Boys and girls, if your paper's kind of  'cause you're pushing so hard then you're drawing dark enough. Okay, they should really be pressing hard with that. Good, go over it really really dark. That's dark enough. It looks great.
Oh Kimberly yes.
And put your name on the front with the crayon. Well look Izaiah, here's two choices for your shell. You can start with an oval like that or you can start like this. Okay. Yeah but I think two different ways see the top one and the bottom was a half circle. Which one do you like? Make it really big. Perfect! There you go! 
Look at my turtle.
Boys and girls I want you to darken your lines and draw for at least five more minutes before you paint. Okay? Keep darkening your lines. Okay, darken those lines.
We have to go and get our paint.
Boys and girls, darken every line and I'm going to come around and as soon as I see that yours is nice and dark I'll put the paint on your table. Okay? This is yours? That's good, that's good. This is dark enough. What I want you to trace over is the black parts. And see these pencil lines? You have to trace over top of them. Or the paint will cover them up. So, what color would you like to use there? What color would you like to trace these in? Come pick a color. Come sit down. Tyler start working on your design. No, start working on your designs in the middle. That's perfect. Nice and dark. Boys and girls, see how dark these lines are? This is a really good example of how dark you want your crayon to be. You want to go back over it and trace it really dark. That one looks good, too. Nice and dark. That's awesome!
Start drawing. 
I need yellow
Boys and girls, would you put your name on...
Pardon the interruption,  please come to the office.  please come to the office.
Put your name right here. While you're getting ready to paint, put your name on the front in crayon. Nice and dark, write your name nice and dark with your crayon. Well, trace over it with the crayon.
Look at mine.
As soon as you're sitting down, Caitlin. I'm coming around to look. Boys and girls, when you're ready, you may put your hand up and I'll come around and check your pictures. You are ready. Yours looks really nice. Good! He made me draw it for you. Very good! 
Melody, I'm waiting for that hand to go up. Isaiah, ah! That looks great! While you're waiting for your paint, make those darker. 
Shhhh... Darken these a little bit.
Izaiah what are you doing?
Oh, I like your turtle. 
