 That one hurts.
 It says volume by, use the formula to find the volume...
 Okay, so. I got 53 when I added up the numbers.
 Yeah, I did, too.
 I took it and divided by three.
 17.6666.
 Just do 17.6.
 No, 17 point three sixes. So, we'll just...
 Just, no, Hayden, we have to find 17.666 'cause all six of them, put 17.6.
 I know, but, we are now, let's just round it up one to 18.
 Okay.
 Yeah.
 So, with average, it's 18. Okay.
 So, now, we have to do, based on our average, how close were you to your guess, so, how close were we to our guesses, so, like...
 I was close by seven.
 I was close by nine.
 We have 18 here, how far was nine and 18?
 I don't know. Nine.
 Nine plus nine is 18, right?
 Oh, yeah.
 So, write nine right here. I was by five. Okay. All right, based on our average, how many drops would it take to make one liter?
 18,000.
 What? Oh, yeah.
 You got us correct a few times.
 Multiply it by...
 If we had it to drops times 1000, 'cause that's how many milliliters are in a liter, we get 10,000.
 Okay, so now, we do water disposal. Follow the directions to find the volume of three marbles using water fluid. So, first, we have to add milliliters of water to 100 milliliter... So, we have to add 20 milliliters of water into this. So, Giselle, you wanna do that?
 No.
 Okay.
 That, yeah.
 Pour it so this gets to 20, okay?
 I'll pour it then. 
 Oops, whoa, okay.
 Try not to put too much.
 I'll pour it out.
 Let's try again, it, with a dropper.
 No, you're supposed to do it with a beaker.
 I know, but if we're really, really close, and we can't do it with a beaker, then we're gonna have to do it with a dropper.
 So, we just do this.
 Okay, we're at 20. I think that's 20.
 We're at 19
 I got it.
 Okay.
 Just... Don't drop it too fast 'cause... I, okay. Okay. So, now we have to add the three marbles, so...
 We'll bring 'em on this side.
 Yeah, you have one, Hayden has one, and I have one.
 No, let Alina have one. You do...
 Alina poured the water. So, it's you, Amy, and Hayden.
 Okay.
 Okay, so, we have to like, tilt it to roll down the cylinder.
 I think I can do it.
 Yeah, I know, but it's the easiest way.
 No, not that much, you don't wanna, don't wanna pour some out. Sayonara, sucker.
 Okay, the water level now is 26 exactly. All right, so it went from 20 to 26. So, the difference in volume is six, and the volume of the three marbles is six, right? What do you think, Alina?
 Yeah.
 How do you think I got six?
 I don't know.
 Well, subtracted 20 from 26. Because it's 20 before the marbles and 26 after, so the marbles must be...
 Okay.
 Kay?
 How we doin' over here?
 Pretty good.
 All right, I'm gonna ask you a couple of questions about volume. What have you learned about volume so far? Whenever you... Alina, look at the board that I made for you, okay? Whenever you drop drops of water into the graduated cylinder, what's happening to the volume?
 What happened?
 What happened to the volume of the water?
 It was at 20 and then 26.
 It got higher?
 It went higher.
 It went higher, okay, so we can say, then, that volume does what?
 What did it do?
 Rise.
 It rose, okay. Volume rises, okay, so, the volume rose, good, and what did you find for the volume of the three marbles using water displacement? Did you get that far yet?
 Yep.
 Okay.
 We got six because the water was at 20 before, and then after we put the marbles in, it was at 26, so, it's six 'cause you have to subtract the 26 minus 20.
 Good, okay. If you can switch places with me, I wanna be able to hear Alina. Okay. All right, so, I'm gonna ask you another question. When you were doing-- if you got six, if the volume of those three marbles is six milliliters according to what you have, we need to change that to a solid measurement, okay? This is the solid measurement, cubes, that we use to measure solids. Marbles are solids. So, Alina, can you, can anyone tell me how we transfer that six milliliters to cubes? To centimeter cubes?
 Each one of those is a gram, and if...
 Each one of these is a gram, that's correct.
 And if one milliliter is equal to one centimeter cubed, and all, and in that case, it must also be equal to one gram, so that's why for this, I wrote that the difference in volume was six grams and the volume of three marbles is six grams. I could also figure out that these are our three marbles, and we have six grams, then each one of them is 15 grams.
 Okay, but grams, is that a unit of volume, or is that a unit of mass?
 Mass.
 Mass.
 Good, Alina, it's a unit of mass. So, what Hayden said is correct. One centimeter, one milliliter is equal to one gram, one milliliter of water is equal to one gram, but what do we know about the cubic centimeters? We need to put the units in this term. So, if you got six milliliters for the volume of the three marbles, then how can we change it to centimeters cubed? How many milliliters is this, is one centimeter cubed? Do you remember, one. It's a one to one ratio, like Eli told us in home room. So, six milliliters must also be equal to six centimeters cubed. So, and this is the unit of volume, but you're also right, the mass must be, it will also be equal to one gram, but we're talking about volume, not mass.
 So, it's the weight, it's the volume.
 Yeah.
 It has to do with three times three times four.
 But you have to explain why.
 Because...
 So, how do we know this?
 
 But why do we do that?
 You don't know the answer right now.
 Because it said that... 
 Three cubic centimeters. And a height of three cubic centimeters...
 I don't know if that's really a three with a height of four.
 Yeah, with a height of four. So, we have to do our work.
 'Cause we built the work right there. And like...  
 Height from a... 
 And the height. Hold on. So... So, Summer, three times three, and then...
 Yeah, times four.
 I'm up to three times three. That's nine, and then times four gives you three times...
 When I did this, it was four times three, I know that. 
 Is...
 So, three times...
 16.
 No.
 Three times three is nine, times four is...
 Okay, it's three times four-- Okay, it's nine times four. Why would that be 60?
 36.
 Yeah, so, we did three times three, we calculated nine times three.
 So, that gives you nine,  and then because there's a height of three, you multiply by four, which gives you 36 because it's a basic math problem.
 And it gives you 36.  Okay. So, explain why you know that. And then...
 And then we go on to number two.
 But wait for her to finish.
 I am. I'm just gonna be a little... Change the length, width, and height of the rectangular prism without changing its volume. Try and it and explain. Of course not, because we're gonna feel like I think is something's wrong.
 Well, we can...
 Well, I guess if...
 No we can't 'cause you can take that one off the building height.
 No, we could tip this  over this way. and solve for--
 Why would you do that?
 What? We're done with problem one. 
 So, now...
 So, I guess we could. Yeah. But, no, but in, we'd still have, we would still have the same volume.
 All right, so the next problem is can you change...
 Summer, are you still--
 I'm fine.
 I know, but we already read it though.
 She can read, she needs to read it, Ryan.
 So, what, say we couldn't because the numbers, we'll have to do the, oh wait, no.
 No, we could...
 No, because like, we won't...
 We're doing the height and we turn it sideways. 
 Yes, we would. It's true.
 Okay.
 So...
 So... How are you guys doing?
 For number two, we wanted to, we had it like this, and we wanted to turn it sideways 'cause that would change the height around...
 Okay, so let's talk about number two, that's the one you're on?
 I'm completely knocked it over.
 All right, so, the question is, on number two, can you change the length, width? Can you change the length, width, and height of the rectangular prism without changing its volume? Try it and explain. Okay, so, first of all, the first rectangular prism, you built, so this rectangular prism, okay, was one centimeter, I mean, three centimeters long.
 We did three times three, it was nine because it had a line...  So, three times three is nine, then times four, times height of four, I don't know.
 Okay, so this is the rectangular prism you built for number one, correct? Okay, and then you just multiply its length times its width, times its height, and what did you get, Summer?
 I got 36.
 36.
 And I'm thinking that more than one thing can equal 36, like if we had...
 Okay, so, how many cubes did you use to get this?
 Two for 36.
 This 36? How many cubes were there in all?
 In all, that was 36.
 It was 36, you had to count out the cubes, right? So, can you use the same
 But have like, a different height.
 But have a different length, width, and height?
 Well yeah, the answer would be yes because more, there are multiple pieces, you could do six like, well, you do two, three, and six.
 Okay.
 Two times three equals six, six times six equals 36.
 Two times three times six would equal 36.
 Right, as long as the three would be height.  So, six could be this.
 Okay. Summer, what do you think? They think you can change these numbers and it still be 36 cubes. Could you still use 36 cubes, build a rectangular prism, and, but get different numbers here? You can, why do you think so?
 Because it has to change it from, then, like, the 36 would still be the same.
