So, good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning, today, today, what we have is, we're going to have a debate based on a couple things that we have recently experienced. One was research that we have conducted about the chemistry in scientific measurement that's required in order to address a local issue that we have with current regulations on water and different lobbying groups trying to change those regulations for their own interests and the groups they represent. Okay. And so we had a field trip to Wastewater Treatment Plant that allowed us to gain information locally from scientists to see what they're doing on their side and what their opinions are for either side of this debate that is current in our city. So, today I'm going to start with our overarching question which has really helped us in our research and is now going to help us to just devise our debates. The overarching question is up on the board if you'd like to see it. It says, how is scientific measurement applied in the creation and the regulation of our local environmental protection laws? The environmental protection side over here is proposing new tighter regulations that may have an impact on local businesses and rate payers, or the people who pay for the water utilities in our city. So, I'll discuss the format of our debate. First, and that's, again, up on the board. I will be finishing up my introduction here, and then we will have our lobbyist group introduce themselves, who they represent, and what their major goals are for today's debate. Okay. Then we'll have a question session where each group will be able to probe into the reasoning and the deeper understandings to reveal your research and each side of the story, so that our City Council members on our outer rows back here will be able to reflect upon what is being said. So, city council members, please be writing your notes. When we get towards the end of our debate time period we will then have you folks make a debate. It's going to be a vote on whether or not we should agree with the environmental side and their decision to make tighter regulations to change current regulations to allow lower levels into the water of various different chemicals that they will be discussing. Okay. At the end, each side will have a one minute opportunity to discuss a focus summary statement in which they will be able to summarize the things that have been revealed during today's debate.  Good. And then, as I said, at the end we will have a vote. City Council will vote on whether  we should make the restrictions tighter on the water quality standards in our city. Are there any questions before we begin? Okay, excellent. And so, I believe the, this side had choice, and so that means that Corbin and his group, for representing industry, will be allowed to have that closing, the last closing statement today. And so we'll start with Tyler, and then we'll try to go back as fairly as possible, back and forth. So Tyler, if you'd like to start with your opening comments about who you represent and why you're here today.
Our side of the argument focuses on the environmental side of the debate. We believe that new water regulations via legislation that would more effectively treat our drinking water should be enacted. The hazardous and deleterious chemicals that are in our water, particularly the excesses amounts of nitrogen and phosporous need to be controlled. While it may negatively affect the selfish interests of industry our group would like to promote the idea that doing nothing and leaving our water the way it is is not an option.
 Excellent. So Corbin, we're ready to hear your side and who you represent.
Our side focuses on the business aspect of this debate. We hope to persuade the EPA and City Council to agree that the waste water that we put back into creeks and streams meets the criteria that is currently the standard for cleanliness. And that it does not need improvement except for a few chemicals which does not improve nitrogen and phosphorous or that we do not need to severely increase taxes to pay for all of that.
Outstanding. And so, and then we will begin, I guess, then, with Tyler who can go ahead now, and you can ask your first question. And we'll be looking for City Council members. If you have any questions that need to be clarified, statements that you would like to determine what the reasoning is behind it, please raise your hand, and we'll make sure that you get in immediately. Okay.    This is so funny.
Okay, we figure that since you say that our waters don't really need to be, it already meets the standards of cleanliness, but already in Colorado we see fresh water species that are becoming more endangered, as the more chemicals, because of the pollution that is put into our waters via industries like metals and dentistry. have already become endangered and extinct, and we just would like to know why you think that that means that the water's clean enough.
Okay, let me ask you this. Do you have information on what chemicals killed those fish?
We have like the excess amounts of nitrogen and phosphorous that the EPA, the standards that they're trying to enforce now. Like we saw on the video, this creates the dead zones because it removes oxygen and the algae, algae blooms start to produce. So, it's mostly the nitrogen phosphate that's preventing the correct amount of oxygen in the water for the fish to breathe, technically.
Okay. I'd like to follow this up with an article from, I believe this is from the Gazette, which is our Colorado Springs newspaper. Since we're focusing this debate on Colorado, most likely our city, we see that our city does not have a problem with algae blooms, says the writer of this article. So, therefore, when you talk about algae blooms, we don't have a problem with this. So why should we be focusing on it?
Because the water runs off the lakes. That does cause a problem with us.
Okay. But even if we did have, I mean, a few...  Like I said again, our city does not have problems with these. So we can't, therefore, we can't focus our debate on these things because it doesn't apply to us.
Well, that one article in a local newspaper from one writer said that we don't have problems with algae blooms. But I've been in the mountains around our area, and I've seen many lakes, ponds, just completely covered with algae and scum. And that so many of our local creeks, Monument Valley Park, and stuff, are just littered with gross algae, and it creates these dead zones that the fish swim into and do not have any way to swim out of because they have no nutrients in them and just die on the spot.
And the same thing happened in the 1960s with Lake Erie, and it later happened with Chesapeake Bay like we saw in the video. And the same thing was happening where they said we don't need to fix it everything's fine, and then just as nothing, nobody did anything. The lake soon was dead, and it was like, there's no fish in there. And the water's just completely ruined with all kinds of chemical wastes, so doing nothing isn't really...
Okay, so I'm gonna interject. What I'm hearing is that there's a debate in here about whether or not our local water is an issue, so I'd like to hear from somebody in the City Council area who will be making a vote today. How about your thoughts about the current water quality? What you have heard from your constituents in the areas where you are located and to determine whether or not you feel currently, right now, what level of danger are we at? Have you heard a lot about this? Do you feel like we are in need of serious change? So, we can direct the rest of the debate. Okay. Anybody who would like to contribute? Okay, Stephan.
Well, all I know is that where we're located, we're at the, we're pretty much the first people that use our water, and then it goes downstream for other people to use it, so, so when we were talking about eliminating the pollution, the pollutants that we put into the water, it's not, it wouldn't be really affecting our city, but the cities that are down the stream from us.
Okay, but this article says that our, excuse me, I think I read this wrong, our state does not have a problem with algae blooms.
Regardless of the algae problem, it says without the oxygen, the fish, bugs, and other organisms that live in the water will die, and quoting from the same article it says in the worst case scenario you basically have water devoid of all natural aquatic life.
But that's a worst case scenario that we don't have right now and we haven't had, and it's not an issue in Colorado. Granted, it might be an issue in like Chesapeake Bay, or Lake Erie. 
But we don't have it here, it says so. And multiple scientists have backed that article as well.
Now Corbin, do you have any measurements, or do you have some values that you can back that up with?
Not specifically on nitrogen and phosphorous. I tried to find some, but I found...
So, does anybody have any of that information because we want to know how close to danger are we.  Do we know about current levels or about where we want to go with this? 
Okay I would like to comment on... 
I'm sorry, behind you, I just called on her.
Oh, excuse me.
So, even if it's probable, wouldn't you want to prevent it from like happening here, with the algae? 
Well, if it's not happening already then what do you have to do to keep it from happening?  Yeah, if it happened, but it hasn't happened yet.
Yeah, but what she's saying is it might happen.
Yeah.
I mean just saying that something might happen is just like saying something awful might. I mean I could say that, you know, an earthquake might kill everyone tomorrow. It might happen. We don't know if it's going to happen.
But fish and other organisms are dying. It is happening. It's not necessarily just the algae, but it's the future problem. We've already seen issues with the...
 Yeah, let's see what Nina has to say as far as City Council.
Well, I just have a question, wouldn't it be better to be safe than sorry? _ You're right, it would be better to be safe than sorry, but like I said the levels of toxins in the water right now do meet the EPA required standards. So, therefore, it is a safe level according to the scientists who work for the EPA.
But we're saying that the EPA standards need to be improved.
 Yes, yes, we realize that.
Because they're not, they're too low, and there are many chemicals that are new because of new industry in metal companies and many other things that are dumping into streams. And those chemicals are getting through.
How would you go about doing this? How would you go about stopping the pollution? Because something that's important to remember here is the fact that the pollution is not only caused by industry it's something that's misconcepted, is for example cars. People think cars pollute the air, and it exactly does pollute the air. But when it goes up and it becomes acid rain and it falls back into our creeks it's also a pollutant. Therefore, industry's not the only people who are polluting the lakes. It's actually U.S. citizens doing the same work too.
 Okay, I like that. And so, can you be more specific? Did anybody gain anything on the fieldtrip about learning about which types of things the citizens in our area are putting down their drains?
Yes.
 That may cause issues?
Yes.
 Okay.
I've got a whole bunch of them.
 Alright, Corbin, why don't you share then what it is?
You want me to read all of them, or just?
 So, we're not focusing just on one group. There may be other groups as well, but also maybe it could be addressed as a result of this debate. Go ahead, Corbin. 
Well, the guy that we had giving us the tour of the wastewater facility did make some funny comments that he's found some pretty ridiculous things in the water treatment plants. Some of those examples were railroad ties, dentures, and he found a live person inside of them one time. So, it's not like the waste treatment plant is purposely putting all this out there. It's, you can't stop humans from putting out waste, and a lot of the stuff that they're putting in there that they're actually reducing the levels to parts per a billion or parts per a trillion, which some of the machines there do do, are poisonous things like fluoride. Which actually, the highest water treatment plant that puts out the most fluoride is actually Mason, which is right up there, and lead and mercury. And it eliminates that from parts to a billion from parts to a trillion. 
Well, first of all, I would like to answer Mr. Dunmar's question, or Mr. Waz' question. I'm sorry...  We do have information on how much nitrogen is required in the water, and it's 10 parts per million. So, that's just to answer that question, and then to move on to yours. Yes, of course, as you said in your own words, you can't stop people from the pollution that they do cause. However, it is the job of the water treatment plants to kind of remove that pollution and to produce a safe environment. And when we don't have strict enough regulations this environment is endangered for not only for people, but for also the wildlife, for the economy, for, you know, natural systems that occur within Colorado. It's all, you're putting it all on the line.
Okay, let's talk about what would happen if we did restrict pollutants that go into the water.
 Okay.
Well, let's talk about the costs that everybody's, the citizens are going to be paying that they said that all our state is going to be paying.
Before you talk about cost, would you rather pay more and be safe or pay less and risk dying?
Okay. I would like to comment on that. That's an asinine statement because do you have a statistic on how many people have died from water pollution?
I do have a statement from the Secretary General of the United Nations. Ban Ki-moon says, "More people die from unsafe water than from all forms of violence including war."
 You just said from the United Nations.
Yeah, this isn't, yes, we're talking about a local issue now, but that is a statement that proves that.
Okay, I would like to comment on this once more, when you said United Nations that's...
 Okay, I'm sorry. We're going to have to go to hand raising I believe because we're getting too fast of an answer before someone gets a chance to finish. So, Theo finish up, and then Corbin will follow behind you. 
No, I made my point.
Okay.
Well, like you said, you do realize that's a local issue, but the U.N. is United Nations of the world. So, that's not a local issue. You're bringing up a fact that's from countries like Africa that don't have clean water at all, nonetheless water. So, of course they're going to die from water poisoning, but here in the United States, we have the cleanest water in the world, no matter where it is. And Colorado also has one of the cleanest state populations of water, if you will, out of all the states.
Yeah, because of the regulations we have in place, and with the new chemicals that are being put into our water, we need to restrict our regulations.
 What are the new chemicals?
 Yeah, they've been there for awhile.
We're having new problems though.
 Can you explain it?
Everything such as nitrogen and phosphorous.
 It hasn't been an issue before. Why is it an issue now?
It has been an issue.
It absolutely has.
It has happened all over the United States.
 Okay, when we talk about nitrogen, we're talking about if we restrict that we're talking about maybe shutting down part of what we do here. As we all know that we are, we do grow many crops in our state. And nitrogen, mostly where it comes from, is fertilizers used in that industry. So, to say that we're going to restrict nitrogen would be, we might have to restrict or shut down some industries that do produce food.
 Such as what? What industries?
For fertilizers.
Fertilizers.
You can't use fertilizers on your lawn because if you have...
And not even lawn, crops.
Crops, lawns, anything because the fertilizer you use goes down drains, which go into creeks, which is really polluting it more than the wastewater facility was.
So, shouldn't the wastewater facility pollute it less since we already have natural pollution coming from these facilities? 
We're already doing so much to prevent these chemicals from going into...
Okay so Will, I hear you're saying that we're doing a lot. What was learned on the field trip? Specifically what role do the scientists play who are employed by our city? What role do they play at the wastewater treatment plant? And how does that affect your group's goals for today's debate? What are the scientists doing, specifically, and how does it support your side? 
Like they said on the fieldtrip, they use bacteria, E.coli, to break down the wastewater that's in the water. It's not like they're adding pollutions to it. Their job is to take it out, which they are trying to do. By doing that, they add some phosphorous and nitrates that are just byproducts of it, but they remove a lot of those afterwards. It's not like to clean it 100%, it's going to cost 25 billion dollars, and that's just for the state of Colorado.
 Okay, let's see a City Council members. I'm trying to get to them quickly. I'm sorry, Amanda, behind you, Stephan.
Where did you get that information that it would cost 25 billion dollars?
 This is from the Gazettte.
 The Gazette article.
 It's from the article.
Science has proven that to remove nitrogen and phosphorous from the water, which is you guys's goal to restrict it, it's going to cost about 25 billion dollars to remove it all. If you just want to do parts of it, it's still going to be 2.46 billion dollars.
Which is four times the amount of what it is costing right now to remove the things from the water.
Wouldn't that be better tough than  having to fix up a completely good stream that destroys the economy.
Well I actually, on the fieldtrip, I asked several of the chemists that work there whether the pollutants that we put into Fountain Creek and what we're doing for the environment, and they said the water they put back into Fountain Creek is the water they get out of it. It's cleaner than that.
Yeah.
So, in my opinion, that statement is totally absurd. We're putting cleaner water for nature, and nature seems to enjoy it more as I asked the chemist as well. And farmers down stream also enjoy that water to water their crops, and it helps their crops grow more than Fountain Creek's streams already.
 Excellent point, Corbin. Why don't we try Alexis and see what she has to say.
I have a question as to how the water pollutants destroy the economy. You can say a lot about the economy.
 What do you mean by water pollutants destroying the economy?
Well you say that...
