Look at your station one information. And the question we posed in station one was does temperature affect the rate of chemical weather. And yesterday, you guys constructed a graph to show that data. Why is it useful to construct a graph in science class? Sky?
Because it's a visual way to show you information.
It's a visual way to show you information. I have a case up here as an example. Based on that graph, what does that pattern reveal about our question? Gabrielle.
The cooler the temperature the more the, I mean, more increases in time.
The more what increases in time?
The more uh weather.
Okay, anybody want to restate that, Rebecca?
The colder it is, the more time it takes to weather.
Very good. The colder it is, the more time it takes to weather. If we're talking about dissolving a tablet, is that chemical weathering or mechanical weathering? Logan?
Chemical weathering.
Chemical weathering. So the colder it is, the longer it takes for the chemical weathering to occur. Would you agree? Thumbs up or thumbs down. Thumbs up, I would agree. Now I want to talk about, so what? Why does it matter to us. Why does it matter in our daily lives. Talk about it for one minute, record your thoughts on your wipe board, and be ready to share back. 
We could consider where to build our stuff...
In what types of areas would you have to be specifically and particularly hot? What about up north? You've got 30 seconds to finish writing your thoughts. 
Okay, it might dissolve faster in a warmer place. Or, what type of rock would I want to avoid? Limestone, why? 
Okay, very good, very good. Alright, let's share some of our ideas with the class. Info managers, table three, what did you find?
If you live in a cold environment, there will be less chemical weathering, than there is in a warm place.
Good point, if you live in a cooler environment, there will be less chemical weathering than in a warm climate. Who's gonna be particularly concerned with this? What, for instance, job field is gonna be concerned with this idea? Forrest?
Construction?
That would be one area, what else?
Statue building?
Yeah, any kind of artist who's designing statues. What type of rock would you want to avoid if you're living in a warm area? And you know that chemical weathering could be a problem. What rock would you avoid? Patrick?
Limestone.
Limestone. Do you guys have some proof for me? Somewhere in your data as to why we should avoid limestone? Which station, Alex?
Station three.
Flip to station three for me. At station three, who can explain to me what the lab was that you did? Someone I haven't heard from, Colin?
We put one small piece of chalk into a bottle of vinegar and a small piece of chalk into water, and we saw if the acid from the vinegar dissolved the chalk and if the water dissolved the chalk. And the chalk didn't dissolve in the water, but the acid made it fizz, bubble, and it was just dissolving.
And why did we use chalk? What is chalk a type of? What is chalk a type of, Jeremy?
It's a type of limestone.
It's a type of limestone. So your evidence showed that yes, limestone weathers quickly with acid. Why is acid a part of our environment? How does it become part of our environment? Andrea?
Acid rain.
Acid rain, acid rain. Now, as we grow up it's important that you're environmental advocates. That you fight for protecting our environment. What types of things can you do in your lives to cut down on acid rain? Give me two ideas on your wipe boards. Two ideas. 
Is that polluting our water, our air?
Polluting the air, and it's getting into our clouds...
Very nice, very good. So air pollution particularly because the air pollution contributes to that formation.
You are making worst case scenarios. You don't have to consider the unthinkable.
It can happen, alright?
You don't have to consider the impossible.
So we can unplug outlets when we're not using them.
We can turn off the water when we brush our teeth. 
What about things in your house? Electricity. Cut down on your electric bills. Remember you burn fossil fuels, to make electricity. So right now as middle schoolers, the easiest thing to do would be to cut down on your electric use. Alright, I want every table to share one idea. Info manager from table one, give me one idea.
One idea is we can help the environment by taking a bus to school, instead of like everybody having their own individual cars.
Good point.
Or even better you can walk.
Instead of having that carpool line going on, let's take busses. Table two give me one idea.
Save power by changing your lightbulbs to CFLs.
Yeah, use those light bulbs that are like the twirly light bulbs, they use a lot less electricity, good idea. Table three give me one.
Conserve water by turning off the water when we brush our teeth.
Now conserving water. Think about what the question was. How can we be environmental advocates to cut down on acid rain?
We can cut down on electricity by unplugging outlets.
Very good. Unplug items from the outlets, that's good. Table four.
We could use hybrid cars.
Hybrid cars, that's good. They burn less fossil fuels, good idea. Table five.
Recycle.
Recycle.  How would that help acid rain? Okay, so it's cutting down on factory use, that would be a good one. Table six.
Cutting down on electricity.
Alright, cutting down on electricity, because to make electricity you have to burn fossil fuels. Table seven, is there any that haven't been said?
Carpool to work and school.
Carpool to work and school, I love it. You got something to add?
I was going to say instead of the bottles end up in landfills, so you can keep bottles out of landfills if you reuse them.
Yeah, very good. A lot of times we focus only on the idea of recycling, but it's good to reuse, too. That's a good idea as well. So we talked about how the temperature will affect our chemical weathering. We haven't yet talked about how temperature affects mechanical weathering. Which lab would answer that question? How temperature affects mechanical weathering.
Station four.
Alright, look at station four. Take one minute, you don't have to write this one down, discuss it. What does station four tell you and how is that important in daily life. Take one minute. 
And it like ice wedges, and then it'll make bigger cracks and then it will do bad stuff for sidewalks. 
What were you supposed to be measuring? In centimeters. You measured in milimeters, but you meant to measure in centimeters.
So how much was it in centimeters? Well if you said it was at 79, which would be right there. What centimeters is that at?
Around 15.
Write down 15. Oh wait wait! I had it going the wrong way, and no one even noticed. So if it was at 79, where would it be. At 79, the tick mark right below the 80.
About 16.
About 16, and if it was at 76 where would it be at?
About 14 and a half.
Very good Alright, let's pick someone at random, who's the lucky person, Andrew P. What did you notice was the difference between the same amount of water when it was frozen and when it was left as a liquid.
When it was frozen it was taller.
When it was frozen it was taller. What does that mean that it was taller? Lucy?
Well the water was frozen to ice. So it expands a little.
It expands. I like the use of that word. Water expands as it freezes. Here in Louisville how is that a problem? And it's been a particularly big problem this winter. Ethan?
Because like, the water can get in the cracks in the roads and then when it freezes it will expand and it will crack roads and buildings. Soon the people will have the construction people will have to rebuild the roads.
Right, very good point. Now that affects us here in Kentucky because we have those cold winters. What types of areas would it not affect? Forrest?
Florida.
Florida, areas that don't have freezing that's a good point. Now we've talked about climate as far as temperature goes. We've talked about the warm temperatures and the cold temperatures and how it affects the chemical and mechanical weathering. What is the other aspect of climate, other than temperatures? Other than temperature, what is another aspect of climate? Patrick?
How humid it is?
How humid it is. Which lab do you think would tell us how humidity affects weather? Flip through, Sky?
Seven Let's look at station seven. Now, during our labs, the materials managers were always in charge of getting the materials ready. A material manager. Can someone explain to me, what's the difference between the steel wool that was covered with a cup versus the steel wool that was not covered with a cup. What would that difference be? Lucy?
Well the steel wool that was covered, well the steel wool that wasn't covered with the cup, it was all like stuck together and it wasn't rusting and the one that was covered with the cup it had like stuff popping out, like it wasn't all stuck together and it was rusting.
Okay, so the one that was covered with a cup and moistened, had a lot of rust. And the one that was moistened, but was just left sitting out dried and did not have a lot of rust. Would you agree? Okay, what is the purpose of covering it? Why do I cover that? Otis?
Keeping the water from evaporating. Yeah, it's keeping that water in. So is the covered cup a dry environment, or a humid environment?
Humid environment.
A very humid environment. I have a great map here that tells you a little bit about different areas, and tells you what their humidity is like. I'm gonna flip off both lights to help you see it. This is a tropical wet area, tropical dry area, semi-arid which means dry, arid, then, marine, west coast, Mediterranean, and humid sub-tropical. These areas that are marked as humid, sub-tropical, such as down in Florida, those areas that are marked as humid, what do they have to be cautious about? If it's a humid area, what do they have to be cautious about? Don't see a lot of hands, talk about it for one minute. What do humid areas have to be cautious about? 
Now think about this, an area like Kentucky. And our summers aren't just hot, they're humid. So we have to deal with cold winters which are gonna affect mechanical weathering, and we have to deal with, Yeah, so we're kind of getting the worst end of both scenarios. Yes, we definitely are. Good point. Alright, I need someone I haven't heard from to share, let's see who the random card is, Lucy. What do you think?
They have to be careful about rusting like their cars and stuff.
They have to be careful of rusting. Good point.  Because the more humid the air is, the more likely you are to have what? Oxidation. Now there was another lab where we used steel wool. What was the purpose of the other steel wool lab? What were you trying to answer, what were you trying to determine? Jamiel, what do you think? 
There was the key word, the what kind of water? Salt water. You look to see if salt water affected the oxidation rate. You look to see if salt water did. Silently, look at your data, and tell me did salt water affect the rate of oxidation. Jeremy, did salt water affect the rate of oxidation?
Yeah
