 Do you want to measure this separately? Or do you want to measure this with the ground water?
 Should we measure this separately?
 Yea, 'cause that's the round rocks.
 Okay, what were you saying Cathy? Why is the ground water cleaner?
 Because the permeable rocks. They clean the water on its way down to the soil saturation.
 There's 100 milliliters, and you guys, could you record the data real quick? Write. Ground-- oh no, but we've got to add this first. Yea.
 Wait, we've got to add. Is it still...? But, let's do the--
 Is that too much?
 Let's do the answer for number one while we're on it.
 Okay.
 It says,
 Good job--
 "Describe what you would do..." 
 Stop.
 But why is your head right down level with the measurement?
 We're doing that so we can make sure it's exactly even, 'cause if we go over, then we won't know exactly how much it is.
 And are you measuring the runoff, or the ground water right now?
 Right now we're measuring the runoff. It was about 380.
 It was about 380? Is it okay to get an approximate amount for the volume for this, and not an exact amount?
 I think so, 'cause then when we measure this, we could still .
 Exactly. Ashlyn, which had more water? Your runoff, or your ground water?
 The ground water.
 The ground water had more?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, 'cause they're overflowing.
 Oh my goodness. Have you measured your ground water yet?
 Not yet, I think you can see it for video.
 Where is your ground water? Oh, oh I see! Oh, so this really did overflow?
 Yes.
 So when you measure your ground water, what will you need to do with the water that's here in the tray?
 I think put it in with the ground water.
 Yea, and measure that too. Okay, this is your runoff?
 Yes.
 Okay, so so far you have how much?
 About 380.
 And then there's some in here.
 Oh, you've already measured 380?
 About.
 Oh.  
 So that's 100. 
 You are pouring that so carefully Jade.
 Stop.
 Good.
 Because we want to have it exact so I had to.
 Okay, Ashlyn. So Jade put in 100 once, and then she put 100 in a second time. So how much water has she put in there so far?
 200.
 How did you get 200?
 Um.
 Be sure you talk nice and loudly honey.
 Because, I got it because... plus... it equals 200 because you put two in there.
 Nice! Good job. 
 Looks like you're doing great kids. 
 60.
 Keep going. Keep going.
 Looks like it might have been slightly off. Better watch it go. 
 Okay, so, maybe if we... I think that's good but should we add the, should I add the data in now?
 No, we needed that, did you pour on water, because that also . 
 Wow, looks like we're getting a lot of data. Your recharge is high. 
 Trial number one, why do you say runoff had more water in trial number one?
 I think because it, clay's more harder, so it's kind of more difficult to go through with .
 So what is this number?
 790.
 What is this number?
 62.
 And which is greater?
 790.
 Yea, 790's greater than 62. Good for you, honey. How did you get this number dear?
 I think, we added them up.
 What did you add up honey?
 790 and 600. I mean 62.
 To get this total?
 Yeah.
 Great. I have a question for this group though. How much water did you pour in on trial one? 1,000? 1,000 what?
 Milliliters.
 1,000 milliliters? But your total is only 852 milliliters.
 It's still in the zone of saturation.
 Oh.
 Or it hasn't collected off the first.
 Alright.
 But it's interesting maybe, the water from last time, since we only had 852 ending last time? Maybe this time, the second , sort of. Maybe it, some might  against the window, if the water from last time, I wonder if it came down, in the aquifer.
 I wonder.
 Maybe it's just holding it in there.
 I wonder, it'll be interesting to measure this time. So what part do you have in your lab note?
 We're adding, we're have to answer question two, and then we're measuring . "Describe what you observed when you poured the water over the ground water the second time. What changed? Taylor, you go first.
 Um, well, I think what changed is, since the clay sort of got use to the water the first time, and there wasn't very much water on the recharge water the first time, and it got used to, the clay got used to the water, that there are little cracks, or the water slipped through the sides and it went, and now we've got more recharge water than we had on our first one.
 Do you think that could happen in real life? Do you think we could have an impermeable surface like clay, and then, it could crack and let water through? Why do you think that could happen in real life? Some place that might happen for real?
 A bunch of pressure? If it rains for like, millions and millions of years, maybe like cement, or gravel? It would break it down, and it would have like a little.
 Do you remember the term for that?
 Weather rock.
 Yeah!
 Weather rock.
 Like, what's in the middle of the road?
 Yeah, sure, yeah.
 Because when people drive on it, it gets so much pressure. And people keep driving on it, and it cracks sometimes.
 Sure. And I'm sorry, I interrupted you when you were answering question number two.
 I wonder if the, I doubt anyone would do this, but if we put pollution on clay,
 If you put what, honey?
 Pollution on like, cement of something, I would wonder if it would get through. Like, sort of like water sometimes, and since the clay's impermeable, water can't get through it easily, but I wonder if pollution would.
 That's a good question, you might want to do that experiment when you're done with this one. That'd be great to check. Good job.
 The clay became more permeable the second time we added the water?
 Yes.
 And then we should probably measure how much is in here.
 Yes.
 Oh, that's kind of... 
 Yea because it's like, soapy.
 It is sort of soapy.
 I think it's because of the clay being wet. Look on this side.
 Oh yeah, I can see some of the white. 
 So why is the  about 120?
 Because it's not quite at 150, but it's a little bit over 100.
 Is close, close enough for this? Or how do you know when close is close enough for this?
 Um, we know when it's close enough for this, because it doesn't really have an exact measurement for 120, so we know that it's kind of half way between 150 and 100. little bit lower than 125.
 There's a lot more recharge than last time.
 A lot more recharge?
 Yeah.
 We had 760, now we have 435.
 Holy cow! The first time you did this, you had 760,
 Milliliters.
 Milliliters of runoff.
 And this time we had 435 milliliters.
 Oh, that is a big change! I wonder, I wonder what will happen with your recharge, have you measured that yet?
 Yeah, what was it?
 It was, I think it was 871.
 Oh my goodness! Why do you think you had so much more recharge the second time you did this? Christian?
 Probably because the ground probably got more moist, so it would make it easier to slip right through.
 Do you remember the term for that? When the ground gets all wet with water?
 Soil saturation.
 Great.
 Well yea, I mean the water level must have gotten higher.
 Why do you say that?
 Because the bigger the saturation is, and the higher the water table is, the more moist the ground is. The ground is so the water can go through easier.
 I think the first time we did it, the water went through, which made it easier for the second time to go through. 'Cause it made it more moist. And the rock pebbles were kind of scattered around probably mixed with the water.
 So that's the pattern you're seeing. What do you predict will happen on your third trial?
 I'm thinking that there will be maybe, maybe possibly, more recharge than runoff.
 More recharge than runoff? Did you have more recharge than runoff the second time?
 No, but we always have the tape on, and it's less than 100.
 So they started like this, and now they're equal, and now you think the third time they'll,
 Yea.
 Oh.
 Because probably, since the soil's even more moist now, that it will make it go through the cracks.
 And Jasper, what did your group discuss, that you observed the second time you poured in the water that was different from the first time you poured it in?
 The runoff water was kind of even with the recharge.
 But before you measured it, before you were just making your observations and watching, what did you observe?
 That the first time, that there was there was more runoff because the dirt wasn't that moist.
 Oh. Great, so that's what you wrote down for your number two? And I have a question for you Christian. How much water, are you the drain person?
 Yeah.
 How much rain did you pour in on trial number one?
 1,000 milliliters.
 So this is interesting. How much did you measure after trial number one?
 900.
 So what happened to the rest of the water?
 It stayed into the soil. 
 Oh! So that's why the soil's all wet. 'Cause there's still water underneath it.
 So it's like
 How did you get 100?
 Because 900 plus 100 equals 1,000.
 Good job! Alright, I'll leave you to it. 
 Four three five, would equal... Okay, we need to have less water than the last time.
