What part of soccer you really want to know?
What about the measuring or even the measure?
That's what you've got to figure out.
Or how long you can.
Okay.
I mean how many like, times you can do it.
Okay, so you could sit there and count how many bounces, kicks, or you could sit here with the timing.
How much you can do it and how much time you need.
Okay, how many per minute. So, you've got lots of ideas. You're going to have to choose that. Do you need a little more time to bounce it off each other?
Yeah.
Okay, so I think you have both come up with, all four of you. You guys come up with an experiment to support each other and you two come up with one. And you'll collect your data and you'll collect your data and then present it as a company. How about that?  soccer team or company. Alright? Alright, you've got a good name. Alright, that's part of it.  It works. Catch your attention.
I know, Stephanie.
We're having trouble.
Because we barely decided on it. We didn't do the friction one, but  the one where you drop the marble in the the shampoo bottle. The little car that you pull back and see how far it goes.

Okay.
And the parachute one, so I thought of the parachute one.
What do you think?
Yeah.
You're a team on it, okay. So, what are you going to measure with a parachute?

Pardon?  Yeah, you're going to use metric, which is centimeters. Stephanie's got control of the metrics. So, can you tell me what your experiment is going to look like with these parachutes?
Well, we don't know how far . Because we know we can't throw it out the window.
Oh no.
It's too far.
Okay, but you know what...
Maybe on the counter?
You guys are coordinated, I would let you stand on this counter and you could kind of measure different heights. How high you could... You could do some test runs, right?
Yeah.
Don't you think scientists would do test trials before they make a real decision? Okay.
Yeah.
And you know what? If you'd like, if we have time, I want you to do test runs in here, but we could do a final drop off the balcony and get it clear.
That's what I was thinking.
Okay, but I do want you to do test runs in here first and then we could do a final. But make your hypothesis, what you're thinking because I think you're on a roll here. It's going to be good.
I don't like his interview.
So how far?
In this experiment, can we put like some sort of weight on the parachute to see how fast or something?
Okay, I think you're making another experiment, right? So, what's your first experiment?
Just how fast it would drop by itself.
How fast from one distance?
Yeah.
Okay, so one distance you're going to see how fast it'll drop. And then you're going to compare that to from that distance.
Adding weights to it.
Okay, alright.
Well, I wondered how far will the parachute go from different heights.
Okay, so she's got one experiment and you've got another one. Do you want to do two in one and kind of combine it together? You do yours and you do yours. Because you only can change one variable at a time, right?
Yeah.
So, what's your variable you're going to measure?
I'm going to measure the distance, how far.
How high, different distances. And what are you going to do?

And you're going to time it, right?
Yeah.
Okay, and you're going to do, what's your variable that you're going to change?
The weight.
Okay. But you're going to see how fast it drops?
Yeah.
Alright, so I think you're going to need another paper.
Okay.
Because you've got two experiments going. Are you going to support each other in each one?
Yeah.
That's pretty cool, double points. How are you guys doing? Oh, I like it. Okay, tell me about this one.
Okay, so we're going to get two or three different size basketballs, like a really small one and maybe a medium one and then... Yeah. And then we're going to like have two meters or a meter and like drop it from there. So, like how high it bounces depending on its size.
Oh, so the size of the balls to see how--
High it bounces.
Okay.
If it bounces higher  .
What do you think?
I think the small one will bounce higher.
Because there's less material to like have to drop from there.
Like when in gym class when they have the huge balls for exercising, if you drop a bigger one usually it doesn't go up as high and the smaller ones do bounce higher.
So, based on your observations. You're a good observer.
 So, your large ball went the highest and you thought the small one would. Whoa, are these your averages?
 Yeah, they're my averages.
Wow, okay. Good. So, how are you guys going to present it as a team?
She's probably going to do like what we thought would happen . And I'm probably going to do the results of what actually happens.
 Are you comfortable with that?
Uh-huh.
Okay, to make it really clear what you did?
 Yeah, yeah.
Okay, I think that'll be really good because this is great, this is great to show, and then you're writing your conclusion with numbers in it, I like that. And then you told, yours was rejected, right?
Yeah.
Okay, now does that mean you're a failure?
 No.
Do you guys mind going first?
Sure.
 Because if they see that yours is rejected and yet you still could write up a scientific experiment, I think that might give them some confidence and it'll take the pressure off them because they don't really want to go first.
 Okay, so let's go.
  Aqui tenemos que cambiar la  friccion sobre dos.  Tenemos que cambiar.
 Oh wow, the graph looks good. And your data chart looks good. So, Jenni will you shows yours?
On the first dictation thing when we have to go up there, do we have to go up by step, like show everything?
 What do you think?
Or just show our graph?
 What do you think would be the best?
 I say showing the graph.
Should we show like, our question and then should we show the whole thing?
 What do you think?
I don't know.
 I think so. Showing both.
Okay.
But it's probably the most important thing to convince them. I'd definitely show your data.
 Okay, we'll show his because it's better than mine.
Okay, very good. And let's see, yes it looks professional. So, these numbers... How many times did you do this experiment?
Three times, wait, four, three, twelve.
 100, I don't know.
 Because there's five and there's three.
Okay. We've got one, two, three, four, five trials here. Is that correct?
No, we went up three, but he wrote trials for these.
 Oh, okay. So, we can fix that?
  Que dibujaste? No tienes que poner esto.  Tienes que poner esto.
It's very neat. So, you added one, two, three and divided by...
 By three.
 Okay, alright, that's how you got the average?
 Yeah.
 Okay, and who figured out the answer?
Me.
 Jenni.
Wow, Jenni.
We did, was it highest to lowest?
 Yeah.
Highest minus lowest, divided by two.
Awesome. You definitely should show this. And then this would be uncertainty.
 Yeah.
And these are the mounted distance with different kinds of... What are these five things?
 The shoes.
 Okay.
 The shoes.
 It gets tiring when you have to do it three times.
 Right. Now my question is, if you didn't have the shoes how did you get the data for it?
 I did it at my house.
You did them at your house? Okay. And then what's this one right over here?
 The socks.
Okay, and that's one you definitely did at school?
 Yeah, we did it here and we also did the Vans here.
And the Vans. Alright, so that's good. Would you explain that to the class?
 Yeah.
That these you did at home and these you did here and so would you have any sources of error?
Yeah, because of the surface. Like at his house it would have been not like floor, it would be carpet or something like that.
 Yeah, what's your floor like where you did it?
 Well, I had to do it like outside during the rain.
Oh my goodness. Okay, so you've got to explain that and then do you think that would affect your experiment any?
 Yeah.
Okay, maybe it would. And so what would a scientist do in the next time?
Would have done it in a dry place.
 Yeah, do it in a dry place.
  Yeah, I like that. Okay, so you'll tell that for the next time?
Yeah.
But I really liked how you guys didn't give up. How you actually did the socks compared to your Vans.
And you know how you pull those out what are  research, we could have done your boot.
 Oh yeah, my boot. Yeah, I could have. Want to do my boot?
 No, I'm good.
No .
 My legs are tired .
Okay, I'm sure they are.
 Well, did you accept or reject your hypothesis?
Accept.
 We accepted it.
 And tell us why.
Because .
 You've got the evidence right there, don't you?
 The experiment, like that one question we had, it goes with the real world or something like that.  
 Could you repeat this experiment?
The whole thing?
 Yeah, or could anybody do this experiment?
Yeah, it's easy.
 It is? Did you write your procedure so it's easy?
 It's hard to write a procedure because it .
 Okay, and if you had to do this experiment over again, would you do it any differently or not?
No.
 Would you test for anything else?

 Good point. How much pressure, right? Okay, alright, any other questions? Nice job. Thanks.  Jenni's team. Sorry to rush you guys, but we got the idea.   
 What was your experiment?
Our experiment was to find out what types of shoes would work to do the moon walk.  uses four different pairs of shoes like Adidas, , Converse or Vans. The Adidas would go the farthest. The Vans . 
 No, just show the data.
You were correct.  And you were correct because the Adidas were here and the first time it went like 112 centimeters and the second trial it went 118 centimeters and the final was like 12 and then it was like 116.6 centimeters.  We accepted our hypothesis. Jenni, continue this.
 Why me?
 Because you're professional.
Well, we were going to do an interview , but we forgot to.  So, what do we do? It's really bad.
 Why do you think it's bad, Jenni?
I don't know.
 Esta bien, esta bien.
Well, here's the amount of distance and here's the kind of  and I marked them as the average they all went. So, we can see that the Adidas went more than the Vans did because the Vans were like, the lowest. 
 Will you tell us about your source of error because that was interesting. Because you had a good way to solve it if you did your project over again.
Oh, yeah. Well, it's because Jose did half of the experiment, he did it at home and the other part of it we did here and I think it did it different because he did it in the rain and we did it like on dry. So, I think that affected the experiment.
 There's probably different traction on shoes.
 Si.  Simon.
 What kind of shoe would you try next time?
A boot.
 Oh, like my major walking boot .
Si.
 Alright. What would you hypothesize would happen if you tried my boot? If you look at the...
Well, because it's soft, so I think it'll go farther.
Possibly go farther.
 Okay, alright. That would be interesting to try out. Does everybody see how this can apply to real life?

 Tienen preguntas?
 Hablan en ingles, no espanol.
 Can you explain how this would apply to real life, if you aren't just moon walking?
Jose?
Jenni?
Don't look at me.
I don't know.
 Go on the actual moon.
 Gym class.
 Yeah, gym class.
 Does anybody change out of their shoes for gym class?
 Sometimes.
 Okay, some people do.
 I don't.
 You don't?
 Yeah, like these shoes, they slide a lot like, in the gym .
 Okay, so it might be different shoes for different jobs?
 Yeah.
 Okay, well thank you. Nice job. Good, we have time for our last presentation. Thank you.  Alright, sorry to rush everybody. I know you could talk more about it. Thanks for being a good audience.   
Hello class, how are we doing today?
 Good.
So our title was dirty water versus clean water. Thank you. Our experiment had to do with a sailboat in four different types of water.
