Why do they keep getting colder? Why do they keep getting warmer?
They add water to it.
Maybe they add water to it. Okay, what else?
The thermometer?
What about the thermometer?
They could have lights.
Lights, well did they turn off the lights afterwards? Okay, at this point, at that point?
Maybe after they took their first temperature they took out the thermometer.
Maybe they took out the thermometer and that has something to do with it. The thing is, ultimately are we gonna know what they did? Unless I was video taping you during that whole process. There are a couple things I wanna point out here in a second. I think several of the ideas are possibilities. What happens if you put your thermometer into the water initially. What do you need to do? As soon as you put it in there what do you need to do? Do you immediately start taking readings?
Yes.
Everybody agrees? We immediately start taking readings. As soon as we put it down in there, like the first second we start taking readings? We take a thermometer, put it in hot water and immediately start taking readings? 
Like, what's the starting point and the next temperature would be whether it increased or decreased from that point.
Okay, so we need a starting point. What were you going to say?
If you put it in there, like if you had it at a certain temperature and you put it in cold water it would still be reading room temperature. It wouldn't change immediately...
Yes, so it goes 22, 21, 19, 18... It's going down 
So, what could have been the issue here?
They took it at the very beginning.
Good, good. They just didn't wait long enough. Look at this one. I saw this in one particular group. Because, by the way, you guys realize you were doing some very, very different things, right? As we were doing, and collecting this data there were some major differences. What could have happened? What was going on here? Just the obvious stuff. Observation, what's the difference in the pattern? Yes, Ma'am?
The hot water is like consistent like it's just gonna stay at the current temp.
Hot water stays hot? Right? Cold water is doing what?
Increasing in temperature.
It's increasing in temperature. The room temperature water is doing what?
It stays the same.
With this same group I just happened to catch this. Cold water. Luke warm water. The person was doing this. This is the warm water.
Oh *laughs* body heat.
Keeping it warm.
Insulating it.
What was happening? 
ransfer of heat.
We're gonna be doing a lot of labs over the next several weeks. This doesn't seem like a big deal, right? I mean, would you have noticed somebody just sitting there going like this? You've gotta start thinking like scientists, though.  Because that could be a huge deal if we're doing something with temperature, right?  Okay, good. Well, the obvious - or the observation. What's going on with the cold water?
It's increasing.
It's increasing, okay. Luke warm water?
Staying the same. The hot water?
It's getting cold.
It's getting cold. Okay. What's different from the first slide?
Yes?
The hot water went past the room temperature of the cold water.
Did it actually happen to somebody?
Did it actually happen? Yeah. Let's do this first. Let's go back to here, what word would you use to describe what's going on here? What's all this heading towards?
Room temperature.
It's all headed towards room temperature. There's a fancy word that starts with an E.
We may have talked about this last year.
The fancy word - The idea, there's a word I want you to walk away with. The word is?
 Equilibrium.
Okay, how does this show equilibrium? Rebecca, how does this show equilibrium? With the hot water, how does this show equilibrium?
Rebecca.
It's Sierra. It all goes toward the same, it's kind of like the hot is increasing and it's temperature-
The hot is what?
I'm sorry I meant the cold. The cold is increasing in it's temperature and then it's going towards the room temperature.
It's going towards room temperature. The hot is?
Decreasing in temperature and it's going towards the room temperature also.-
Is this what we would expect? All right, so what happened? Because I don't have any idea. What happened here? Yes?
In some places of the room there are places where there is a lot of air coming out? So maybe that one cup was under a lot of air.
We do have some powerful air vents. What do you guys think? Is that-- that's a huge amount. Any other ideas? Yeah?
I think they accidentally read one of the cold cups and marked the temperature  down for a hot cup.
Is it possible there's human error here? And they just... they looked at the wrong thing?
Maybe when they were pouring the water into the cups maybe they accidentally mixed the cold up with the hot.
So there's mixing the water, thermometers--maybe just read them wrong. So you guys think some kind of human error, then? Yes? Yes?
Let's go back to this and let's go to the next step. Kind of like what we've done in the past. I want you to think of this at an atomic level, a molecular level what's happening here. In order to do that, we're gonna play with BBs. I've got enough sets of BBs here, each group is gonna have a set of BBs. All right. So group up a little closer together. Alright, so you two maybe go around... you guys. Here's what I want you to do. Within your group one half have one set  Actually, the two of you can...  Marcus... Good, here's what I want you to do. The BBs will be what?
 Atoms.
Atoms and molecules. Okay, are atoms and molecules just sitting?
No.
When we add energy are they gonna go faster or slower?
 Faster.
When we take away energy they're going to?
 Go slower.
Or, rather than take away, when they release it. I'm gonna give you a couple minutes. I want you to talk within your groups. I want you to be able to do three things. I'm gonna call people up here in a second. I'm gonna stick you on the overhead so everybody can see your BBs. I want you to be able to simulate the top line, the middle line and the bottom line. So, getting cooler, room temperature, staying the same and getting warmer. I also want... kind of a bonus would be to use both how would you show something going into equilibrium? All right, talk to each other real quick. Some are getting cooler. Some are getting hotter. Some are staying the same temperature, and how would you show equilibrium? I'll give you about a minute or two. 
All right everybody. Take a look at your BBs. Hands off BBs.  I got a volunteer. What were the BBs again?
 Atoms.
Atoms. And we're trying to show what?
Movement towards equilibrium.
Movement towards equilibrium. What? Energy-- energy and movement how those go together. Energy transfer is kind of a fancy way of saying it. Okay, everyone take a look at the chart. Here's the graph. Show me the top line.  And tell me what you're doing.
Make it faster, because it's hotter. It decreased because it's going down and getting less heat.
Okay, so it's gonna start-- the BBs are going to start going fast and then...
Slowing down.
Slowing down. Could you show us... Yeah, we're in an awkward spot.  Getting warmer, the bottom part of that chart.
At first it goes slower and as it gets warmer the molecules move faster because it's getting warmer.
Thank you. I'm gonna do room temperature. I think room temperature would be this, and it stays the same. Kenny what? Well, it's gotta be moving, right? Room temperature would just be this and I have to do what? 
Oh, I probably should have picked the same group. The two of you working together, how could you show us equilibrium? Of going towards equilibrium.
She's going to do cold.
Okay, and you're going to do hot. Okay good now, time out. What did you do? Or were you not done?
I started out fast and she started out slow.
Why did you start out fast?
Because I was hot.
And you were?
Cold.
Cold. And Lauren, what did you do?

The same speed, which was getting close to equilibrium.
Show us one more time. Good. Who disagrees? Nobody? Good. Thank you. Here we go, keep going. A couple more things real fast. Most of you guys had this going about six, seven, eight, nine... anywhere from six, seven to 15 minutes of data. If we did this for an hour, what would this look like?
They would eventually all be on the same line for a while.
And it would be pretty boring. So this would keep going-- well, what would be the lowest point?
Room temperature.
This would be the highest point? Then this would still continue the same. What's the word?
 Equilibrium.
Here's how all this started. This whole lab that you guys put together and created. It's a demo. Here's how it all started. I asked you a question yesterday-- a couple days ago. Jar, bag with some water in it, scarf, although I told you gloves, and then aluminum foil. We came up, we felt all four of these things. And you made a predic... Well, the question was, "If we put these outside, left them there overnight, you look outside your window--"
