 Well frogs do sink, they do. It's sinking.
What do you think caused that to happen, what made it sink that time?
 I put it like that and...
And then it was sinking. Alright, but now we saw some pictures where the real frogs got on lily pads and didn't sink. So, what do you think is different?
It's like stuck to the ground and...
The lily pad is stuck to the ground?
Yeah, I think there's something inside. I think there's something in like dirt, you know, like that causes the lily pad to grow. But with something in the lily pad seed.
 We were looking at this the other day. Do you girls remember about that? Okay, what were you all thinking about that.
 They don't...
 But what were you thinking Andrea? 
You know these eyes right here, we don't have eyes like this, but frogs... But frogs jump really high. If they don't jump really the same, they probably just almost jump if the momma and daddy frogs turn into, get some eggs and the tadpole comes out.
That tadpole right there, he was following it and then he stopped. What if they took the flashlight, they might move.
 Yeah.
Like this, watch. When you take it off... I did this in my momma's. When you take it off and you turn it this way he looks back at it, like this. That's what he does.
 How come?
Because when tadpoles like eat things that glow, then when you take it off, you put it back on.
 How come, why?
I know, they just don't.
 But that's not fair.
 What else did you notice ? We did the spots. What else did you notice? Jamal, look at it again.
Frog.
 What body parts do you see?
 Gray, polka dots.
You said the spots.
 The feet.
 The feet, what about it ?
 Lines on it.
 Some lines on it. And what are you saying, Nikera? You said it had some things on it.
 That white stuff.
What is that? What is that white stuff on it's feet? See if I can get a closer look. What is that? Jamia, do you see that? The white things on its feet.
 It's his foots.
It's his feet? Do you have that on your feet?
 No. 
 They need peace and quiet.
If they don't have a calm river... Look, they live in ponds. Dude, listen, listen.
There are trees right here. There's flowers.
Listen. Latan, be quiet. I'm thinking that this is very calm rivers and this is what you call that ooey, gooey stuff that Ms. Robbie called it. That's the lake and that's the pond and there I am  frogs.
They need grass, they need flowers, they need little trees, they need...
I was thinking Aleha, thinking about us living in houses. We live in houses because can't breathe water. This is my house  and like there's dirt under there. And there's dirt under there. Then under that runs the water, the blue water.
Let's add something to it.
So what made it work this time?
 It stands upside down. The frog floats. It doesn't jump on any kind of one, it only jumps on the ones that are round. Because it needs something facing up to make the walls.
 Because this is facing up, so you think maybe the lily pad faces up.
Right, if it does this it needs like a shield so the water won't get in because if the water touches it, it will tear and it will sink.
 Did you listen?
Because they need something on it like rain.
 So you're saying if water touches it, what happens if water gets on top of it?
It'll sink because it'll tear the lily pad up and it'll sink, but with the flower on it, it does not sink.
 So if it has the flower, you think the flower keeps it from sinking.
Because it's stuck. It's stuck and it's so hard, it makes it so hard and rainy and it dries up.
 So, when you dried the frog off did that make a difference?
 Well, it doesn't make a difference. Frogs like to be wet.
 Frogs are usually wet.
 That frog is an African swimming frog because look at it's feet.
 It does look like an African dwarf frog.
It jumps on the water. It can run and hop on water.
 Andrea, what did you notice about this? What did you notice?
 I know that we have .
 It doesn't float. 
 Let me show you which one.
 Which one?
 What about this one?
 He was growing legs.
 No, this one's growing legs. 
  but that's what tadpoles swim in. Okay, you see them?
Shine it on it.
 No. You see they're moving because they're growing legs. 
 If you yell really loud the glass will break and then the tadpoles . 
 Frogs. The frog's body.  
 There's a water snake. There's a water snake. A water snake. 
What are you talking about over here?
This thing has a frog in it.
And he just swam.
 Okay, so we're talking over here.
Ms. Robbie, look.
So, you're comparing the pond to your house.
Yeah. 
 Alright, did you see this that she found out? It says the frog is pulling off its skin. I wonder why it's doing that.
Because, so it can have different skin.
Why would it make different skin?
It might need different skin because of the way it lives. The way it lives, it has to take off its own skin, just like a snake takes off its whole skin. Snakes take off their skin.
Be a new frog.
The way they take off their skin is they shred it off. They don't have any arms. Snakes shed their skin off and they don't have no arms.
Snakes shed their skin?
 Yeah.
Do you think frogs shed their skin too? What do you think Aleha? You found the picture, tell me what you're thinking. Let me hear Aleha.
When it gets old they have to take it off.
He has to take it off. Why do you think he needs to take his skin off?
I was thinking...
Just a moment, Daniel, let me hear Aleha, I can't hear.
When it gets too rough on him, he can take if off.
 Maybe if his skin feels rough. Hmm, I'm wondering about that. That's giving me something to wonder about.
Ms. Robbie, there's a water beetle.
Yes, but we're still looking at this about this frog coming off. She feels like maybe when his skin is rough he takes it off. What did the page say? It uses a word I'm not sure about, molt. It said frogs molt a few times every year.
Because it's the way they live.
 It's the way they live.
But we don't live that way, the same way we do. We get bigger instead of shredding skin.
You're right. We get-- What, what'd you say? Say that again.
We get bigger.
 We get bigger.
And they shred.
 And they shed their skin.
That's opposite.
Hmm, I'm going to write down that word molt. We're going to talk about that a little bit. We're going to try to explore that a little bit more. 
The frogs are underground and they hatch out of the eggs and turn into the tadpoles and they're going to grow up a little and they're going to lost their tail and they're going to turn into an adult frog and then they are underground when it's winter.
 When it's winter they're undergound. Okay, what have you all found out about comparing?
 The frogs protect their babies.
Do the frogs protect their babies?
No, they don't. What about your ?
They wait until they hatch.
 They wait till they hatch.
Frogs have bigger eyes than us because they have those eyes like that on their heads and we don't.
And we have eyes that are small. And when you were born did your mom or dad take care of you or your grown up?
 Yes.
 I went to my grandma when I'm a baby.
Okay, did your grownup take care of you when you were a baby, Andreas?
 Yes.
Yeah, well what about the mother frogs?
No.
 I got a lot of food I love.
You got a lot of food.
 I eat chicken and rice, everything.
Andreas just think about our tadpoles. Is the momma frog in here taking care of those tadpoles?
 No.
 They wait till they hatch.
Maybe the momma frog missed them.
 Probably if they die after wintertime...
