Scientist number two? I want to know what your question is, what is your variable that you're isolating, and what are you measuring? You guys ready? Okay, so, table two? Or table one?
Our central question is how does different types of oil stains clothes, even after they've been rinsed. And our independent variable is going through the different oils that we used, and the dependent variable is how they changed from before, when we first stained them to after when we rinsed them.
Cool, and you may be able to use the light probe to determine the intensity of that stain. Tomorrow--
We also were planning on taking pictures from before and after, so we could like, compare those.
So, you may want to do a scale, like Marley did with the intensity of her hair dye, as well, okay? But get it set up today, make it really controlled with all your measurements, and just change the type of oil. Alright, scientists, do you have any?
Our experiment is we're going to mix oil and water and then try and separate the oil using positive and negative charges.
Okay, using positively and negatively charged particles to separate oil from water? I don't know, I read your document, I don't know what the positively-charged particles you are, but did you work it out? Okay, so what's your question then?
Our question is does charged particles affect the oil scum?
Okay, does charged particles affect the shape of oil balls, them coming together, scum balls? Okay, good. Table three, what's your question?
Um, how long does it take to make scum on the surface of the water, like, using what we're going to use, mainly olive oil and toilet paper.
Okay.
Perfect.
And testing, the independent variable is testing how long we're going to stir. How long it takes to make scum, and then our dependent variable, we're going to take the observations of time.
Okay, so the question is, how long does it take to form scum balls? Independent variable is the stir time, and the dependent variable is the...
How long it takes.
How long it takes to do it?
Uh-huh.
What are you going to measure, though?
We're going to actually try to measure the surface area of the .
Cool, so you're going to say how much is covered by scum at that point in time? Okay, that should be pretty easy to do with a camera shot. Okay, table four, what's your question?
How does temperature affect the oil and water?
How does temperature affect the oil and water? Awesome.
And we're trying to figure out how it will separate.
How can you separate it? What are you changing in the experiment?
We're changing, we're going to use regular temperature and put it on a Bunsen burner and put it in the freezer.
Cool, and you're more than welcome to use the freezer in the back. Good idea. Alright, table five, what's your question?
Does heat affect the scum ball?
Does heat affect the scum ball?
And our independent's going to be amount of scum and the amount of water, and the dependent's going to be heat .
Okay, so your independent, now you said heat and then you said the amount of water in whatever, so your independent is really going to be temperature. So, I feel like you have two independent variables. Why don't you just spend a minute and talking about which one you want to isolate. Is it the amount of water and the amount of scum? Or is it temperature? Okay?
We were going to change the temperature.
Then keep the amount of water and the scum constant. Because you can't do different amounts of water and scum and different temperatures. It means you're testing for two different things. While you could do that, it's two experiments and we don't have time today. So, just one experiment. Alright, table six?
So, our central question is, is it possible to create scum balls in different shapes?
Okay.
And our independent variable was the amount of oil. And the dependent was the shape.
Okay, so is it possible to make scum balls of different shapes? Independent variable is the amount of oil or scum, dependent variable is the shapes. While I'm over here, I just want to draw your attention to the back of the room. That is the waste beaker, which has scum on top of it right now. It's every kind of oil that Copper used yesterday. So if you want pre-made scum, I encourage you to use Copper's waste from yesterday. So, the bottom portion of it is a lot of soap and soap water. But the top portion of it is just that less dense, oily scum, okay? Alright, table seven, what's your question?
It's can we filter out oil from the water using the gravel filter?
Okay.
So, we're trying two different types of oil and we're going to put it through a bunch of gravel in the container.
Okay, and you may need to use two of the same identical filters, so just make sure you're really consistent with your measurements between those two filters. Good. Alright, I'm excited about their project because Copper had one group that did a filter yesterday and their results were very interesting. So, check back in with this group later on if you want to see what's going on with the filters. And table eight, what's your central question?
Does oil collect some of the things in the surrounding body of water?
Does oil collect the most what?
Does oil collect the most of each thing?
Oh, the most of each thing in the surrounding body of water? Okay, so you're going to look and see what it attracts? And what are some of the materials you're going to use?
Dirt, sand, and pebbles.
Dirt, sand, and pebbles, awesome. So, your independent variable is type of material that it would possibly attract. How are you going to measure those results?
Mass.
Mass? Okay, cool. You may want to work on a microscope slide just so you can have a little bit of an easier time measuring the mass. If you get too big, it won't measure on our balances. Which brings me to my next topic, which is safety talk. Conservation of materials. 
 Did you guys get a lecture yet?
 No, because Sam is too busy with her.
 Why don't you go over there and see what they're doing. Go, talk to her. Thank you. Alright, lady scientists. What's going on?
We're like, I thought that we didn't need to do the middle one because yesterday we didn't have enough time, so we just did the small amount and then the larger...
 Amount? Okay.
 Now that we did the middle speed, we're actually seeing a lot different stuff, because the balls are actually coming together. That underneath, and we noticed also under here that everything settled to the bottom except the dirt and oil that reached to the top.
 Okay.
 And this is thicker than that one.
 Okay, let me get another group over here because they're also trying to form a scum ball, and I'd like them to see your results. Terrence and Catherine and Maddy, can you guys pause and come and check out this group's experiment?
 I don't see scum. It makes me mad.
 Ooh, this is so cool.
 Why does it look like that? I want it to look like that.
 Come on over. These guys are also doing an experiment on scum balls. Can you guys talk about what's your independent variable? What are you changing?
 We're just changing the different speeds.
 Okay, and Yasmine, what were some of the things you added that were controlled within all three?
 The dirt, oil, and the water.
 Okay, and they used the black potting soil dirt. Is it the peat moss? In the plastic bag? That's peat moss.  Okay, good. And Taylor, it looks like you have some cloudy stuff in the bottom, what's that? Don't know? Can you guys fill her in?
 Toilet paper.
 Toilet paper, which makes sense because there's a lot of toilet paper over there. Okay, and so far, your results have been, they've just done the high speed and the low speed, right? And they're like, oh it's the same, nothing happened, nothing happened, right? They came back today, and this is the medium speed, and what's going on?
 A lot of dirt, balls are actually coming down and forming together. Because they were all little pieces of dirt, and now they're making big globs of dirt. And that's weird.
 So, does time, sitting overnight, have anything to do with it?
 That's what we talked about with these two. Actually this one, because, and this one too, because we didn't see a lot of carbon bubbles in the first one. And then this one, I just noticed that it's actually the toilet paper is on the bottom and actually attached to the bottom layer of the oil.
 Okay, are the highs and the lows working, the speeds, yet? Have you tried to re-run the highs and the lows today?
No.
 Re-run the highs and lows, you have a good seven, six minutes. See if they start to form clump balls. Not sure if you can use this one.
 Can I go get a funnel?
 Sure. There's one on the table. I am not sure if your choice of particles simply is inhibiting the formation of the scum balls or not. If you want to add another part to your experiment to make it more controlled, maybe you could add some toilet paper and see if that adds anything, or you could leave it how it is. It's your choice. Got about seven minutes, okay?
 Thank you.
 Yes, cool. Hey, you guys have some diesel fuel on your table? Any information, research, observations that could be made about the shapes of the molecules would be awesome. The three of you all together. Alright, so...
 We got 97, no, 47, 94 for all of them.
 Okay, let me put the camera on you four. Ready? Let's talk about it. Is that okay?
Okay, so you isolated your variable, different types of oil. You made everything the same, same size, same amount of water, same amount of soap, time, soaking, everything was super-controlled, right? Okay, and then you just did a light prep on all of them and the look was the same across the board.
Yeah, it was 47, 94, like it jumped between them two numbers, constantly. None of them, like...
Consistent, so it was consistent. Alright, so any initial conclusions? Yes.
I said that since all the things were like a darker color, and the oils were kind of close, I guess, in like, how they felt and what color they were, I guess that maybe if we used a white shirt, maybe there would've been a difference because it would've soiled it more.
Do you feel like there is still oil in this fabric?
Yes.
Yes, okay, alright. Let me hear your conclusions, and then I'm going to--
This one that had water on it is different-looking than this one, like the material looks more like--
Like dry or something, right? So, there's some qualitative difference. I know that this one needs to be flipped over. Because then it's the same side of the fabric. Okay, so water--
That one's whiter.
Lighter, okay, so you feel like these are a little bit darker looking. And your control?
This one is darker.
Your control was the same as all of them? The 47, 94.  Okay. And you? Any conclusions yet?
Um, I don't know. I kind of think the sand thing is sand because I know the one we put on the paper, like it went all the way down to 40-something, so maybe the fabric was too dark to the point where it was .
Okay, and Lauren, what was your central question?
My central question?
The central question of your experiment.
Oh, it was to see after we washed it how much of it was still there.
How much of it was still there? Okay, or if it would affect the fabrics differently?  Okay, but your light probe is saying, no they're all the same, so maybe your eyes are off or maybe the probe is a little bit off or whatever.
Should I take that as data?
I think you should take it as data, yeah. And it's okay, you addressed your question, which was, how does oil affect it different among shirts? In your case, with the soap, maybe not at all differently. I'd like you to try one more thing involving paper towels. And what you're going to do, is you're going to see, you're going to press down as hard as you can with a paper towel and see if there's any oil that's absorbed on the paper towels, okay? So, that can be one other way to take data. To see if there's still any oil still stuck in the shirts.
Okay.
Okay? Goggles on. Goggles on! Goggles on!
 What's the highest temperature we could put it at?
 Are you guys boiling?
 You can put it all the way up, you just have to be really cautious. Get your Hot Hands out, the big glove. Alright, Heather's group, I'm coming over to you guys. Ready? Okay, what's going on over here?
 We put 10 millileters of motor oil in 150 mls of water and we added five grams of salt.
Okay, ooh. Salt, when I was a waitress, we used to put salt on our oil stains to get the oil out.
Maybe you could put a second... Wait, that's kind of like clay. I was going to say flour, because that's what we do if I spill.
What do you notice?
It's starting to kind of clump.
When we had the clay, it was really, really clumpy, but then it...
It, the, uh...
Yeah, like the clay just clumped. And then we had to get before and that didn't really make a difference, it just sat at the bottom.
My hands are sticky.
Oh, thank you. While you're here, do you remember the charge of the particles of clay? Positive or negative?
Negative.
Okay, so, negatively-charged particles, and now you've added sodium chloride, which dissolves in water. You've got an A plus, positive, CL minus negative. And you're clearly getting a scum ball. No? What happens when you turn it off?
It just all settles at the top.
When we put clay in there for the first time, it was all little clay balls that slowly rose to the top. But nothing of the magnitude...
So, that motion really helps it to stay together.
Yeah, that's what we did. We put it at 500 RPMs first, and then we dialed it back down to 100.
Let's apply this to the water treatment plant. Was there motion at the water treatment plant?
 Yes.
Was there clay in the water?
Probably.
From where?
From the sediment on the bottom of the Schuylkill.
From the sediment on the river? Now remember, the stuff that's going in the water treatment plant is coming directly from the home, so it hasn't had a chance to go in the Schuylkill River yet.
Okay.
Would there be any clay in the homes?
Not in the homes, no.
Not in the homes? Not in anything flushed down the toilet?
Yeah.
So, yeah, there could be some, like, clay-like sediment, sand particles going through. Or at the very least, we could say that there's probably some negatively-charged particles going through, some kind of silicates.
 Shall we throw away the fabric?
Sure.
Who knows what's in feces, right? Alright so, what I think is cool about your experiment is the motion is really important in getting those scum balls to form. Have you talked about CeCe's experiment yet?
 No.
Go ahead and give that a whirl because they actually put peat moss in theirs, and they started to get scum balls to form on medium speed. Also, Matt, Ian's, sorry, Catherine's station is using sand, specifically, and I forget what the other material is. It looks like peat moss, and they're having no success. So, go ahead and do a little quick walk-around. And clean up.
Motion.
Can you let them, give them a 10 second overview?
Yeah.
And then go? Taylor, pull it together, you'll be okay. You're good? Okay. 
 Did you get any scum?
No we didn't, we just got into lumps. The fastest way we got a layer, and then everything, the soil settled on the bottom. And then for the middle speed, it actually formed big clumps of balls with the oil mixed in. 
 Clean up, clean up. 
