Just take it in, but take your tube off first. Before you pull it out, before you pull the needle out, take your vacutainer tube off, and this is...
Pull it out again?
Yeah. Use your two by two remember.
Oh, yeah.
There you go. Good job, Faye. And, guys, it just takes a while. This is not something you're going to learn overnight. This is a skill that it takes a little while to learn. You've got to get hand movements down, you've got to figure out what works best for you. You know, if you need things placed in a different position. But after this, you all can start sticking the arms when you're not doing your book work. Then, whenever you feel like you got all your hand movements down, you feel like you're proficient, then I'll watch you, which I'll watch you doing, then you all will stick me. So what do you think, Cassie?
Hmm?
What do you think? Is it easier than you thought, or harder than you thought?
Easier.
Yay, Faye. Those arms are a little harder to get... Those veins are not as easy to feel as...
That's okay. She's doing a fine job. Two by two.
Sorry. You  to draw blood from them.
Pop your tourniquet. Engage your safety. Good job. From down there?
Yeah.
They say not to use these, and you can use hand veins, but remember, first choice, second choice, last choice, and then hand veins. If you're going to do hand veins, you all have been through a lot of the book work already, if you're going to use hand veins, what kind of needle are you going to use?
Butterfly.
Butterfly. Okay I know you all have seen them use butterfly in the clinic. You guys will actually rotate through the clinic lab. We'll do it at Dr. Maderis' clinic, so that you all can get more sticks there.
Is there some people who draw only from around here?
Not usually. Now, there are some people, they'll come in and they'll say, "You can't get blood from anywhere from me except here." What that one lady told you, is right here, right...
I'm better at popping it out. Remember I couldn't get it in.
Good. It will be something that, after you get these hand movements down, it'll just happen. Because when I'm not talking while I'm doing it, I mean, it just flows. Because I have done it for several years, but for some reason after you get older, it's hard to talk and do something at the same time.
