 Are you gonna have any angles in there that add to 90? No, so you won't have any complementary to worry about.
 Is that supplementary, though?
 You will have supplementary. Right. You're not gonna have to worry about the outside. You're just gonna look at your inside. When you measure your angles you'll be able to see supplementary.
 Yeah.
 Then kinda go back to those parallel lines cut by a transversal rules to explain why. 
 We're supposed to draw a line?
 Well I want you to see what's congruent sides. Now, you dont have to measure all your sides because have these, so you've got the same colors, so they're all the same. You're don't have to do angles. Kinda figure out, OK... So they're all 90 degrees. One of yours looks 90. So you know they're 90s. So you got, for the outside of your figure, you got some a little bit easier work.
 Yeah
 OK, so you need to explain why things are 90, and what are congruent. And then, you're gonna get a lot more new stuff when you redraw and draw your diagonals in there. Then you'll actually have to measure your diagonals and your angles. So you know a lot about a square to start with.
 Yeah the equal sides have to be congruent, and certain sides, so write that?
 Then measure those  angles and segments and see if you can't find some more rules that go with a square.
 Oh, OK.
 So yes, your first set of rules for the first page, from here, you know a lot. You know that any point and what they are. You know you have equal sides. Then you don't have to measure these sides because you used the same color. So you can explain it using the colors. So you got a lot you know from the first part. But then when you draw your diagonals here, you're gonna have to measure your pieces. See what happens to these angles. See what happens to these diagonals. And then see if you can't come up with some rules. You're main part here, you know a lot. But now when we do this, this will some of the new.
 OK.
 Square is the last  one that we teach. So you will be the last group up there, today. Right, we're trying to get these rules today. You can kinda build upon them so when you hear what these other groups are doing when you get up there.
 Yeah.
 There's just three of you.  
 OK.
 How you doing?
 Good.
 What do you notice  about some of these? Corresponding is what I got here, down here. These are supplementary. Supplementary because they're what type of angles? Help him respond. Well there are options, focus on one. If we were to look at... If I was continuing these lines here they're gonna be same side interior. Obviously yes, so they're not quite supplementary. So you might need to go back and do it again. Sammy knows they need to be supplementary. Same side interior. Somehow your measurements didn't get there. So go back and try to remeasure. You realize you wrote the error. That's good, so you're using some of that previous knowledge and realizing your error. Yeah, so you need what we did on that worksheet the other day. When you measured between 110 and 120 you read the wrong way. You read 122 when it's going this way it's 118. So what you did is you read this way, when you're going this way. You said 122, when it's between 120 and 110. At least your teammates knew that we needed supplementary and worked it.
 You said it was only off by one degree.
 Any amount... Then again, to then explain your rules now, what's congruent, what's supplementary, and then explain why, like you were saying same side interior, that's what you'll have. 
 Yes?
 Do you have Chester Marlin?
 Yes I do.
 Please send  him to the office.
 OK. 
 What you did was perfect.
 Because they're same side interior.
 So you would say this...
 Would you say equal angle one and angle four?
 That'd be fine,  because you can go ahead and when you're teaching it you can label those angles, and that would be a really good way to do it.
 So it's like, angle one and angle four are same side interior?
 Same side interior, so that has to equal 180. OK, bisectors are gonna come when you cut diagonals in there. Your second page, when you redraw the figure. You're gonna draw the diagonals, you're gonna see your diagonals cut each other, you're gonna see if your diagonals cut your angles in half. I'll be to Ashley then at Brandon's group in just a minute. So make sure your congruent sides. You don't have to measure your sides if you use your colors, you can use colors to explain it. So yeah, you're exactly on the right track. Here we're just gonna draw the same figure, draw those diagonals in there, and then we got a little bit-- some more things. You might see bisectors, you might not. Some figures you do and some you don't. All right. OK, it's up to you. I love the way you put your letters there. So you're getting really good with your letters. You can say... Since you only have one angle at each letter, you can say angle J or angle H, however you want to do that.
 Could we just put supplementary, and draw a little diagonal like that?
 That'd be fine. Actually, do all these, and you've got your congruent and your angles, then you're gonna redraw the same thing over here, put your diagonals in and measure again. When you put diagonals in, you might see some that bisect the angles, or bisect segments. You might not, but that's what you're looking for.
 So this is gonna be... 
 Well, the diagonals... We're not gonna draw one of them.
 Oh, we're not?
 No, we're just gonna look at our diagonals. Otherwise you're breaking it into two other figures. And that's a possibility, but you don't have to. I love the way that you've lettered it, here. You're using those correct terms, that'll be really good as you go up there. All right, Brandon.
 What all did we mess up so far?
 Let's see. Well it's a four sided figure. What should a four sided figure add up to?
 360.
 360. Does it?
 No, it's a little more than 360.
 So you might need to change things a little bit, to remeasure it, and one of your rules could be you know that they have to add to 360. There's some that I see really right away that's good.
 It's like 370.
 OK, so you're gonna try to make it work. You know you need to make it work. You know it's gotta be 360 so measure it a little bit better.
 Can we just add one here and add two there?
 Well go ahead and look to see what your actual angles are. But one good thing you see, you see that these angles are the same, which is something you're supposed to come up with, which is good. Now if I was giving this, when you're up there explaining it, you need a way to explain, and I know you said that the two obtuse angles are congruent, and in your picture that's good. But sometimes, let's think for a minute, If I gave you... Write them out. Yeah it may always be the obtuse angle. So here, yeah, that's what I was thinking. If you were to do it this way, the angles that are congruent aren't necessarily the obtuse ones. So what you've found is good, but in your picture it is the obtuse ones, but if you can see as you move that, it doesn't have to be the obtuse ones. Let's look at a way we can describe. You're saying that these two angles are congruent, which is correct, so instead of saying obtuse, how can I explain that these two and not those two. What's the difference between these two angles and those two angles?
 They're 45 degrees?
 Well it didn't have to be. It could be 45, it looks 45, if I was to do this it's not.
 It's the short side's angles.
 It's where your short sides meet your long sides. So the angles with the non-congruent sides. Or the short sides meet the long angles, that would be perfect. That would be a little better to explain it. And even when you're up there explaining, a good thing to do would be to move your figure to show how it didn't have to be... And normally it's the bigger angles, but it doesn't have to be.
 Draw diagonals?
 That's right,  and you're gonna look for all the angles again. When you draw your diagonals, a lot of times you're gonna see bisectors, like segments might bisect each other, they might bisect angles, they might or they might not. So that's what you're looking for when you do that. And then you're gonna kind of come up to...
 We just draw them like this?
 Just like that, that's right. Then you'll measure all of those angles, and all of those segments. We won't be able to use the color to show congruent when we draw the diagonals on the inside, because you won't have a piece that matches correctly for your diagonals, so you'll actually have to measure that part with a ruler. But again, you're not as much concerned with the measurement as bisecting it or something else. So that's what you'll do. All right, I'll be right back. Yes?
 So are we supposed to do this?
 You don't need the angles that are out there. I mean, you could, but it's not necessary. What should, of course, our figure add up to?
 The angles inside?
 Uh huh.
 360?
 360. So make sure yours do.
 What if they don't?
 So I think, if I was to  look at your measurements, here...
 I know what I did, I messed up, I wrote these...
 Good, perfect, that's what I was gonna get to, you read the wrong one and didn't notice. All right, I'll be right back.  How are you doing? So you want to make some general rules.
 So the top and the bottom sides have to be parallel.
 I wouldn't really want  to use the words top and bottom, because what if you turn it this way?
 Yeah, well, A and B sides.
 Yeah, so you're gonna do that. So you've got your pieces. What do you notice about your angles? You've got the angles that are equal, but what if I was looking for supplementary? Do you have any supplementary angles?
 A and D ?
 A and D, so you say A and D are supplementary, what makes them supplementary? What rule do we already know that was why they're supplementary?
 They add up to 180.
 Right, they add up to 180, but...
 Are they same side interior angles?
 Same side interior angles. So you can say they're 180 because they're same side interior angles. Then what you're gonna do, you're gonna go to this page, you're gonna draw your figure again, but you've got to draw your diagonals, and measure the things. When you draw the diagonals, what you're really looking for is to see, is there anything that cuts in half? Do you bisect any angles or bisect any segments? Some figures do, some figures don't. But that's what you're looking for. So you're gonna redraw it, draw your diagonals, then measure, you'll have more angles to measure. You're actually gonna have to measure your segments because your little angle legs won't match your diagonals correctly. You're gonna have to actually do the measurements. and see. See if the segments are bisected, see if the angles are bisected. That's kind of what you're gonna come up with. It may be, it may not be. Some of the figures do and some don't. OK?
 I think I understand that.
 We draw from angles to angles?
 Yeah, from vertex to vertex, that's right. So make an X in the middle. All right, you're good. Yes?
 I think we have about everything, and then I think we have the other vertex... Angle bisectors, they bisect the angle number five. All the triangles are isosceles.
 Wow, that's good, I didn't think you'd get that.  I'm impressed.
 He did it.
 Good job.
 And then, diagonals make a perpendicular.
 Perfect, what I'm gonna do, is I'm gonna give you another sheet, make a bigger square...
