It's big.
 Okay.
And that's all, and the little blood cells, and I drew one on there, in kinda like a magnified, and there's little blood strands, they're blood strands, DNA strands.
 Now, those DNA strands are only in the blood? Are they anywhere else in your body?
They're in your hair and in your fingernails, in your skin, they're everywhere.
 Okay, so it's not just in the blood?
But you usually get it from the blood. Blood. 
Okay, alright. It looks like you've got a couple questions. You can call on whoever you want.
Me?
Are these questions? You guys, are these questions for Ryan? Okay.
 How do you know Chuck was right? 
 What?
Well, he's a pretty smart guy.
 Who?
Chuck, my uncle.
 Oh, okay. 
Maybe.
Even though there's a bunch of DNA on the strand, what does that have to, how do you know that a piece of that DNA came from either the mom or the dad?
That's why  because DNA comes from both of them. The dad gives the DNA and the mom provides the DNA. Okay, David?
It was in the blood, right? You said it was in the blood, right?
 Yeah.
Yes, but couldn't blood be transmitted to another person because they had the, yeah, it could be transmitted to another person, so that's not really a trait.
 Sure, when someone gets a blood transfusion?
Yeah.
 Right? Like if you're in the hospital and you're injured and you get blood transfusions? If your eyes are blue and you get a blood transfusion from a brown-eyed person, does that turn your eyes brown?
 No.
 It could, if .
 Okay. Does it give you a widow's peak when you have a straight hairline?
 No.
Okay. If I get a blood transfusion tomorrow, hopefully that doesn't happen, but if I get a blood transfusion tomorrow, is that going to give me a cleft chin?
 No.
If the person had a cleft chin?
 But how do people die when they get, when they get blood transfusions?
Carlos, can we talk about that later maybe? Let's stick with how we get our traits. Do we get it through the blood? Okay, not really? Girls, what do you think over there?
I was sure it had something to do with the blood , but that's between your parents, and it has nothing to do with the traits, so I don't know.
 Do you want to come over here too?
I want to come over there with the boys.
Yes, I . 
 You guys are, you guys haven't even said anything yet, and already they're, they're joining your group. Okay, should we hear from the people who think, I've got a large . Lorenzo, do you want, should we hear from you? Or are you thinking about coming over to this group too? You're set, okay. Let's hear from Lorenzo. Okay, Lorenzo, what do you think?
I think that it was  that brown-eyed people have more traits than blue-eyed people, because I know more people that are brown-eyed than blue-eyed, and I think I read somewhere that usually brown eye is a dominant trait over the blue eyes. So for most of the times, brown-eyed people, if you have brown-eyed parents, you will get brown eyes, but how is--
 So you heard something about a dominant trait? Okay, any questions about that dominant trait? Brown eyes being dominant trait?
Because a lot of people have brown eyes like that, and not many people have blue eyes.
 True? Blue eyes are more rare? Okay. Lorenzo, whoever you want to call on, you've got two people.
So like, what you were saying right now,  something about your parents, then you would get it from your parents?
 Hmm.
 What?
Because when he was, when he was saying that, about the traits, he said you, if your parents have brown eyes or blue eyes, that you're gonna get that trait from them. So, from your parents, so--
 Interesting. Do you get what she's saying?
What?
 She's, she's saying she's sticking with this group because it's coming from your parents. Okay.
That's why they say it's half and half.
 Okay.
Also, I'm in your group too, but what's it called?
 
Yeah, I see more brown eyes, but still, they always get their traits from the parents, not only--
 But a lot of people have, some people still get blue eyes, and then others, it's because of, they still get the traits from the parents, and some of them don't look alike, so--
What about, what about, some people have, both of the parents have brown eyes, and some of the kids turn, they have their blue eyes, though.
 Yeah, that's great, because that's a great, how many of you guys have seen something like that?
I have seen it.
 Where two parents have one trait and then their kid has the opposite trait? Like brown-eyed parents, blue-eyed kid? You guys have seen that? Why does that happen? What do you think?
I'm not really sure. I know my parents have brown eyes, and me--
And you have green eyes.
Yeah.
 Your parents both have brown eyes, right? And your eyes are blue?
Yeah.
 Okay, so why does that happen? Lorenzo, since it was your idea let's hear from you.
If I'm correct, there's more brown-eyed traits, so you get, if you have a brown-eyed parent and a blue-eyed parent, you get a brown-eyed trait and a blue-eyed trait, but because brown-eyed is dominant, most of the time, you get brown-eyed. But you still have blue-eyed traits, so even if you have two parents with brown-eyed trait, if they both also have the blue-eyed trait, you could get blue eyes.
 I have a question for you, Lorenzo. You keep using this word, dominant trait. Does, in your mind, does dominant mean more?
 More?
 When you're saying more traits, in your mind, does dominant mean there's more of it?
Yeah.
 Okay, what do you guys, how many of you guys have heard this word, dominant?
 There's recessive, too, which is--
Recessive? Okay, does dominant mean more? Anyone know that?
It means power over the others.
Like an overpowering trait, he's trying to say.
Are you trying to say more? Are you trying to say more or are you trying to say stronger?
 Stronger.
 Okay, so this group, the group you're sitting in, the group one, right now, is someone who thinks that there's more traits, come from the brown. Do you think that? You're not sure?
Say yes.
 But you know something about dominant? Okay.
 I'll stay with my group.
 Yes?
 Can I make my own  group where it's like--
 Yeah!  Good, yes. What are you thinking?
I'm moving.
Maybe it's just maybe that nature decides what something will look like, because I don't know, my parents have brown eyes and I have blue eyes, and we don't really have anyone else who has blue eyes.
 You're picking the--
 Wait a minute.
 Fiona, no. Olivia?
Yeah, nature.
Okay, nature makes, so you've got blue eyes, nature had something to do with that, not your parents?
 Yeah.
Okay. Anyone want to respond to that?
 Ryan?
How does nature do that? How does nature choose your eye color?
 Doesn't it have something to do with your parents?
Of course , how could you just , a slot machine where it's like 'ching' and then the eye colors roll around and stuff? "Oh, you got blue eyes!"
 I don't know .
Let him respond. You're not sure?
 No, I'm not sure. I'm still .
Any other questions? 
 Oh, yeah?
 And like, you know how, I was gonna ask this, what if you get it from your grandparents or your ?
 Grandparents have black eyes.
 Or from your aunts or something.
 I really don't know.
 If your aunts and sisters .
 Yeah, what if his aunt and sister has blue eyes?
That's right. What if somewhere way back, someone in your family had blue eyes?
 You guys better .
 I don't see how that .
How does that happen? Does anyone know people who look like their grandparents?
 Yeah, my cousin does.
Lorenzo?
My mom said that I look like my grandparent because I have a mole or something that's in the same spot as my grandpa.
If that's the case for you, does that support what he's saying? Nature decides? Or does that keep you in what you're thinking?
 It keeps me in.
 But I have a question.
Okay.
How do people, one eye is blue and the other one is green?
 Oh, I know that one.
 That's a mutation.
 No, no, some people have really--
 Yeah, like--
All right, let's refocus. Let's refocus. We haven't heard from this group. We haven't heard from the few groups that have the most amount of people in them. Okay, so let's give them a chance to talk. Ladies, can you start us off?
You guys read it. I have to read it? 
 We agree that people get half their traits from their parents. We think this is a  trait from both of their parents. Also,  for example,  that--
What? 
For example, if one person has, one parent has--
 Because for example, for me, I have my dad's eyes and I have my mom's, my mom's .
She has traits from, some from your mom and some from your dad, okay?
 Yeah.
It looks like you've got someone who wants to say something about that.
 But if, what if you get more, if you get some traits from your ancestors too and not just your parents? What about your--
That would just go back a generation, though.
Does that still support what you're thinking?
Yeah.
No, because we're talking about the parents. How they have half.
 Yeah, but you then also get from your parents, some of them, so some people don't look like their parents at all, but they look like someone else in their family.
I'm seeing this issue come up again. What about grandparents? Kids who look like their grandparents. How does that happen? Does anyone here wanna, any of you guys? Go ahead.
You still get it from your parents because your parents, if your grandma has it, then that trait is somewhere in your mom or your dad. It just doesn't show up as much, so it can transfer back to you.
 What can we call that? That there's a trait in you and you just don't see it? Does anyone know a word for that?
Invisible? 
 I heard it over here.
 Recessive.
 Yes, recessive, okay. Who else has heard recessive? Raise your hands. Scientists call a recessive gene a gene that does not express itself. It doesn't mean it's a little gene that's quiet. It just means that it's a gene that's not showing. Or a trait, sorry, a trait that's not showing. That's called recessive. You also want to talk about this more, a little bit more, let's stay on this topic. I think it will help us figure it out. Yes, Ryan?
Like he was saying, it's probably about the DNA strands, when they, when two people  combine in different parts or put in different pieces of it, like maybe one, like maybe the blue eyes is out and brown eyes goes in there. Or maybe when they have one of those recessive genes, the recessive genes get, it goes into the strand too. Maybe when Tyler said that none of, neither of his parents have blue eyes, maybe his grandpa or his grandma or their grandparents, maybe one of them had blue eyes, and it was in his mom or his dad, and it went into the strand that he was created from.
It didn't show up in the mom, but then it popped up in the kid?
 Yeah.
Okay. David?
 I don't know, I think, I don't know if I agree with him, but I think I kind of do because, like he said, it was dominant, but he still has, he still has a little bit in him, so it's kind of like a, well, because you still have, some of your traits, or your parents still kind of have a little bit.
How are, okay, how are, how is this idea that brown-eyed kids have, I'm sorry, brown-eyed, there's more traits in brown eyes, right? Is that what this idea is about? All you guys right here? How is that like this one? That we get half from mom and half from dad? Or how can we use some of this thinking and layer it onto some of this thinking, so they're both right?
 The question is how are those two the same?
 Right.
How are that one and this one the same?
 How are pieces from this, how do we use pieces from this idea that Lorenzo is bringing up, dominant and recessive, how do we use pieces from this and combine it with pieces from this group over here? Let me get you to talk about that with your group. Let me ask, I'll ask that question one more time. What's right about what these guys are saying and how can we add it to stuff this group is thinking?
 What if the kid is born blind, right?  Or what if the kid comes out deaf and blind?
 some express themselves and some don't.
Woo! That, you just gave me a brain scan because you read my mind.  Say there's two DNA strands. One in this hand, one in this hand. They combine. The dominant ones from each of these take over and make one of all the dominant ones that were in them.
Can you give me an example ?
With Tyler, maybe there was a dominant gene. The blue eyes was dominant. Maybe it was passive before it started, whatever it's called, recessive, and then it became dominant, but over time, and then it  went in Tyler.
How can a dominant gene become a recessive gene and become dominant again?
 Maybe  every time it gets passed down.
 Hmm.
 Like with us, we get bigger.
What if your, if your mom had two blue-eyed parents, but Ryan here, today ?
And they combine. I found it. 
 All right, are we ready to pull back? All right. I didn't get to hear from all, these two groups, but I did get to hear from them. I think what this group has is something good, and I think you guys want to hear it. , you're gonna be the spokesperson for that group? Great.
We agree that people get mom and 50% from their dad. We think this because if there's two people who made the baby, then it's, logically, should be split in half. But all, every time someone has a baby, all of their genes of both parents go into the baby. Only some of them decide to express themselves and show.
 Go ahead.
Say I have two DNA strands from two different people. Say, Mary and Joe. Mary and Joe both had grandparents that both have blue eyes, and that gene got passed down to them. Now, they combined to make one gene. Say Mary had blue eyes, had a blue-eyed gene, and Joe had a blue-eyed gene. Those two genes combined to make one dominant blue-eyed gene and it goes in, like what Tyler, like with Tyler.
 Right, so we, Tyler, he used you as an example. Your parents both have brown eyes, right?
 Mm-hmm.
 And what were you guys saying about, his parents both have brown eyes, but something, they had something else too?
Yeah.
Because everyone kind of has a little bit of everything in them, it's just some, some color or some trait just decides to show because it's more dominant.
 You know the movie, you know the movie, , that movie? They went to some place and they went to go get,  found out, they got the book from some person and they matched it up to ours, and it was different colors, so they had different kind of genes for like, for things. So if you compare a baby who has blue eyes and one who has brown eyes, it's gonna have, it's gonna have different things with the eyes. The DNA thing will be different.
 Maybe those DNA genes that, in a DNA, maybe they would look different for a blue-eyed person than a brown-eyed person?
Yeah.
 Did you wanna say something?
Maybe the DNA of Tyler's parents, for example, if their grandparents had blue-eyed DNA accumulating in them, it might have been passed down through them. And then when they got to where they were forming Tyler inside their, his mom's stomach , it might have, the blue DNA might have overpowered, combining those two blue DNAs by getting, it might have overpowered the brown eyes, which made Tyler get the blue eyes.
  50%? It could be like 50%.
 That happened in my family.
They're saying, what color eyes are your parent's, Tyler? What's your mom's eye color?
 Brown.
Oh.
 Yeah, what you got on your mom's side?
From my brown-eyed mom?  Brown.
 So what about your mom's mom? What about your dad's?
 What about your dad?
All right, you guys, let's talk. Let's talk for a second. If we've got an example of one person, in science, you never hang everything on one person. Let's be careful about that. And we don't want to have him be the reason for all. But this is a good example. Do we think that people can have genes in them that aren't showing, but then they can have a kid, and then those genes pop up?
 Yeah, because if the two genes--
Did you want to say something about it, Lorenzo?
 Yeah, because I think that if a parent had brown eyes and one had blue eyes, but the brown-eyed parent also had some blue-eyed genes, then the baby would probably come out blue, because it has the blue-eyed gene and then half of the blue-eyed gene from the other parent.
How could we figure out how we get our traits for sure? Because we have a lot of ideas, but what, in science class, what will we do? What kind of activity could we do? What kind of research could we do? How would we find out?
We could go on AskJeeves.com and we-- 
So we could look it up on the Internet. Okay, guys, one resource we could look at. How else could we figure this out?
We could take a survey.
 Didn't we do that?  the class?
 We did?
 No. 
But we could  whole school so we have more to research, or more, I don't know.
 Make a larger sample size. Then, we get information and we find out that X percent of our students have brown eyes and X percent of our students have blue eyes. How does that help us find out where those traits came from?
 It gives us more of an idea--
 Their parents and their grandparents too. And their great-grandparents.
 We'd have to ask people to, we'd have to ask people to do some research on their families? Okay, so we could do some family research. Sonja?
We could make up an assignment .
 Sure.
 
 Okay.
