 From the top.
 This way?
 Starting from the top. Woo hoo!
 That went better. 
 Can we have a ruler?
 Yeah.
 75.
 Okay, make sure you record it. 75 what?
 75 cm
 C-M. What's C-M stand for?
 Centimeters!
Centimeters.
 Okay, now we've got to get the average.
 I'm gonna do the average.
 Go ahead, go to your next one. I'm gonna check on the next group.
 Okay, no you don't put 75 for all of them.
 I'm not.
 Just on that one. We knew it wouldn't go any farther. Just put 75 for the first one.
 Second part.
 Trial two. Now, what do we do?
 Okay, go ahead. Tell me what you found out? What did you discover about bubble wrap, sand paper, wax paper and just the plain ramp?
 On the bubble wrap, it didn't go. Because it was a bumpy surface. Because all the bumps, because it was too bumpy and had to much friction.
 Too much friction, okay. And so, what did you discover, Sean?
 I discovered that on the sand paper it got higher and lower
 What do you mean by that, higher and lower, and higher? Can you explain that a different way to me?
 well-- 
 So what does that say about the surface?
 
 Increase and decrease. Spencer, what did you discover?
 So--
 So it went farther on plain wrap versus the wax paper?
 Yeah.
 Okay, so, right now  you're going to find the average, right? How are you gonna find the average?
 Like 32 plus, plus 30, plus 41, divided by three.
 Okay, you guys go ahead and do that. Who's going to be the calculator?
 I am.
 You are? Okay. I might suggest someone else also be the calculator, so you can compare your numbers, and then I'm gonna come back and talk to you about your results. Okay?
 Okay, let's sit down. Let's see what your doing.
 It's not going very good on the sand paper.
 Because it's just like the carpet.
 Why won't it go as far on sandpaper?
 Because it's like the carpet.
 Okay, what does that tell you about friction?
 That if it's sand paper it doesn't have a lot of contact--
 It rubs against the rug.
 It rubs against the tires-- I think it doesn't--
 One person at a time. Paul?
 Because it rubs up against the tires and it doesn't have a lot of friction. If it did have a lot of friction it would go faster.
 Okay, so does sand paper have friction, or not? Yes or no?
 No. No.
  Yes.
 What is friction? One person at a time.
 It's like...whoosh.
 That's friction? Hm. Okay, can you explain, what is your idea, Stephen? Friction?
 When a car rolls on carpet, it's friction because it slows it down. Sand paper slows it down, too.
 So far, what have you discovered about friction, and wax paper versus sand paper?
 Wax paper--
 Let's let Stephen tell me, okay?
 Wax paper is, kinda like, it's probably gonna be like the...
 Look at your numbers and what have you discovered so far? Because you already recorded them.
 It's the highest so far.
 What does that mean, it's the highest so far?
 It's the one that has the least amount of friction.
 It has the least amount of friction, okay? And how do you know that?
 Because we did the experiment.
 And what happened?
 It didn't go as far...
 It didn't go as far on what?
 
 Okay, go ahead an finish your experiment. Go ahead and finish on the plain ramp, you have one more to do, I see here. Okay? And then we'll talk about what we should do next.
 Oh, 39.
 That's showing you more about fourth dimension. 
 Let's talk about our results. Talk about your results that you've noticed. Sh. Stephen, Tanner, I need to be able to hear this group, okay?
 We found now, that our total averaged out to 85cm.
 
...for our total average.
 Okay, what does this tell you? Look at your averages. What does this tell you about friction?
 That friction slows you down, like the salt slows you down on ice. Like the plain ramp is kinda like the ice. It makes you go faster.
 Right, and you know what it's doing outside, right now? What is it doing outside right now?
 It's sleeting.
 It's sleeting, it's snowing, and the roads are very, very slick. So, what do you think's gonna be a great idea, because I know my husband's coming home from work tonight. The roads are gonna be slippery. What's gonna happen so they can create friction so the roads are safer? What should the road crews do?
 Salt.
 They can put salt and ...?
 Salt and sand.
 Salt and sand. Yes.

 Why?
 
 So it didn't go at all? I wonder if it was small, little bubble wrap, if it would work better? What do you think?
 I think if they were popped--
 Oh, if they were popped, I wonder if they would. Maybe so. Okay, down here you have a graph that we're gonna talk about a little bit later. But this is what I want you to do: I want you to pretend like you're a teacher, and if you were going to tell someone one thing that you learned today from this experiment that we did. What would you tell them? I want you to write it on the back of here. What's one thing that you've learned today that you would teach someone and then we're gonna talk about it, okay? I want you to talk about it when you're done writing, talk about it with each other and I'll be back in a minute, okay?
 We can share when we're done writing.
 Or we can share them as we write them. So, what would we tell someone?

 I would say friction on the ramp would make something go slower. What would you say?
 I would say the rougher the surface, the more friction.
 I would say something about the same thing that you guys were saying, except a little bit different. I would say... it depends on which kind of surface it is. If it's bumpy, it won't go. If there's bumps and air all over on it. If it's a smooth and soft surface, it will probably go a lot faster.
 So, tell me what you-- are you still writing?
 We all shared it.
 Okay, but I want to see it in writing. Like I want to see something written down.
 I said the bumpier the surface the more friction it makes.
 Okay--  Spencer, what are you gonna write?
 Because I'm gonna write kind of the same thing as Heather.
 Is there anything your gonna change about it? Or add to it?
 I'm gonna say the bumpier the ramp is the more friction and the less... and the less further it goes.
 Okay, I like that. I think you guys are learning a lot about this. Sean, I see your writing something a little bit different. What are you writing?
 I'm writing the smoother the surface, the farther the car goes.
 You guys are right. The farther it goes. Because why?
 Because the friction, because the surface is too bumpy and it has a lot of friction so it was causing it to not go. But on a smoother surface-- 
 Barely any what? What word is she looking for? She said on a smoother surface there's barely any friction. And I like what you said. You said "A smooth surface is like ice." A smooth surface is like ice, right?
 I said the bumpier the surface, the more friction.
 Right, but you also said, something, that if it was a smooth surface, it's kinda like ice. There's no friction to keep it from, like if it's outside today, if it's ice, your car could go anywhere, but putting sand down or the salt, keeps it ...
 Less friction.
 More, it has more friction. Okay. Okay, go ahead and finish. What? What do you want?
 I wonder what would happen if you tried snow and see if it would run on snow and then we tried ice.
 Oh, so how would be do that? I like that. How would we do it?
 When it's like an icy day or something and there's a little bit of ice somewhere, we could bring the car out or something, not like a real car--
 Oh, okay. 
 Just like a play car--
 And try it out.
 Try it out on ice and then they would put a little snow and then we would try and see if it would go faster on the snow or on the ice.
 How could we change this experiment? What could we do next time if we wanted to change it to find something different out?
 I think you could use a plain surface and you could probably use popped bubble wrap.
 We talked about that.  Popped bubble wrap, and what else did you say? The bubble wrap could be what? Talk about that, the bubble wrap could be what? Guys, I need you to not come in here.
 You can use  un-popped bubble wrap and you can use the tile, and you probably use, like a grid with the marbles. Instead you can, like, use a car.
 Okay, talk about that.
 To see if it would fall off.
 Now, what would be the purpose to see if it would fall off? With force and motion, how does that tie in?
 Well, what I mean is, will it like go far...
 If you make a ramp and you try to get it on and wanted to see if it would fall off or not...
 Like if it was on the--
 It depends how fast it would go, if it went faster would it fall off?
 But if we're talking about friction, does this have anything to do with friction?

 Oh, I love that. So, wood, carpet, and ice. And we could freeze ice, because we have big containers...
