 Everybody's using their directions, they have their tools and their charts out! We've found today's date, so we know where we're going to record today. It's Wednesday, March Ninth. 
Student] I know what numbers  down of zero mean. They are negative numbers. That's what are numbers that are down from zero.  
 OK, I have most friends with their hands on their heads, I want to make sure everybody's listening and ready to move on. We can keep all of our materials out so we can actually use them. Excellent. I'm waiting on a few more people to have their hands off of their materials and on their heads, so we can concentrate on the teacher. In each group I have one team member that will be measuring temperature. If you are measuring the temperature, please hold up your tool that you'll be using. Those of you measuring the temperature, what tool are you using? Everybody?
 Thermometer!
 Very good! The people that are measuring the temperature with the thermometers, please line up at the back door of the classroom. When you get out there, boys and girls, are you going to be able to see the temperature as soon as you get out there? What are you going to have to do?
 Look at the thermometer.
 And you can also compare it to the thermometer that's been outside, so go out there and you can let your thermometers adjust to the temperature of outside. If you have a windsock and you are going to measure the direction of the wind, I would like you to line up quietly at the back door of the classroom. You guys can use the compass and work together, go ahead out and see what you observe. If you have an anemometer to measure wind speed, you may line up. If you have a ruler to measure precipitation in our rain gauges, you may line up. You may all go. And last but definitely not least, if you are measuring the . 
 When we look at this , our thingy goes away!
 No, yours is 61!
 No, it's the Fahrenheit, not the Celsius.
 There's something in there.
 What team are you?
 66.
 You guys, we need to wait for how many seconds?
 It's not ready yet!
 You've been doing it at home. What is it that you've been waiting?
 How can it be 110? How can it be? 
 Now we are going to set the timer for 10 seconds and we are going to count how many times it went around. OK? So see where your  is and get ready to start counting. 
 Look at the bee! 
 I've heard both of these ladies say two. What you need to do is you need to use that chart in there and see what it means. What is the wind speed if the anemometer goes around two times in 10 seconds?
 Look with your eye, with one eye, look at this one.
Student] I can't see!
 I think it's going West.
 When you have completed measuring, you may walk back to your group to record your data. Quietly.
 I got 66.
 Can we compare it to what's on the wall there, and see what we have?
 It got 66, then it got 65, and then it got 64!
 Victor, could you explain it all to me, why you think you thermometer keeps going down?
 Because it gets colder.
 And where has the thermometer been sitting all day?
 In there.
 And do you think it's cooler out here, or is it warmer out here?
 Cooler?
 Exactly! So our temperature is going?
 Down!
 Good! So let's go ahead and look right here to make sure we can tell the temperature from our thermometer that's been staying outside?
 It's getting brown!
 What do we think the temperature is there?
 It says the temperature is 46 degrees.
 That's probably our most accurate reading since it has been staying outside all day long. All right. You can head back in and record. 
 I don't know which number to choose!
 The one on the outside, the whole time. 
 What's your --
 Gym? It's on Wednesday, March Ninth.
 It was West! 
 The wind direction was West.
 The wind direction was West.
 Very good. I think that you have an accurate reading.
 What's the wind speed?
 It's cloudy.
 Wind direction, temperature!
 Team Three is working together, and Team Two, and Team One! Nice job working together!
 I think you have to change it.
 Temperature! Victor! What was the temperature?
 40 degrees.
 46 degrees Fahrenheit.
 It was 50!
 What was the wind speed?
 It's not raining.
 So what did you guys think the  was?
 I agree with you. Why would we forecast that it might rain? 
 What's the weather?
 The weather is rainy!
 West! Put West! 
 It was West.
 It was West?
 We found out that the wind speed, we said it went around about that many times, so how fast is the wind actually going?
 Minutes!
 Miles per hour? We don't go anywhere in a minute. We travel, like we said, in cars, in miles. Right? Go back to your group, they'll tell you on the chart.
 My thermometer's higher than the one outside.
 We discussed that while we were standing out there. Why do you think that that may not have dropped as far down or might even be going back up as you're holding it inside right now?
 Because inside of you it's warm. Because you told us that it was, when you're holding the thermometer, the thermometer only feels what's around it. And if we're covering the thermometer it can't measure any more temperature, only how our temperature is.
 Very good. So, Linda, if that answered your question, that's why we compared it to the thermometer that's been staying outside that we check each day. What are we going to say that the temperature was from that thermometer reading out there?
 46 degrees Fahrenheit.
 Excellent, so make sure you're sharing that, and each person in your group, use your data! Linda.  I think you've done an excellent job.  
 OK! We have a few minutes left, and some groups are getting to the point where they have finished recording their data after working with their team members on each type of weather and using the different weather instruments. I am going to pass out your follow-up questions and you're going to use data from last week and compare it to today's data to do some equations on here, and you do not have to finish today. We will do this in our follow-up lesson in our next science lesson. OK? You may continue working. Thank you. 
 Write your name and date and you can put it back in your packet when you clean up.  OK, the wind direction? Who should you be asking that to?
 Today's? 
 Last Wednesday the temperature was What is the degrees between today's temperature and the temperature last Wednesday? Write an equation. Show your work. Last Wednesday the wind speed was eight miles per hour. What is the difference between -- 
 You already have your paper!
 I know!
 We can do it by ourselves.
 But it says to work as a team! 
 I like it! Good job! "Keep working with your team," I hear her saying. Excellent! I like how I see Brianna using her data! And Grace starting to write an equation, and Abby and Samaya have the date on their paper! You guys are all doing an excellent job!  Who is the person on your team whose job was to measure what direction it went? You should ask that person as soon as he comes back, he should have his data on his chart.  What number did you put there?
 We worked together and we figured it out.
 I know this one! I know this one! I know that one! One second!
