Okay. So, what's going on with this group? You go ahead since you did it.
We made like a T chart.
Oh, fantastic. Graphic organizing. Love it.
We put the ones that we're going to delete over here and then keep over here.
Now we're discussing why we deleted these or chose them.
Was it pretty easy to choose the keepers?
It was.
Yeah, we agreed on most of them.
What about the delete? Have there been some discussions?
We had to think about the smart and the healthy and religious.
Yeah.
Okay. Good.
Oh and stay in school. They don't have to stay in school.
So, there were some that you had to discuss a little more?
Yeah.
Tell me some of your thoughts. Which was the most difficult?
Probably the religious.
And also smart.
Tell me a little bit about the discussion you had with religion.
Well, first of all we thought that it wouldn't be, but then we thought some people had different religions and other people...
My dad has a friend--my dad has a friend that isn't a Christian, but he's still a really good person.
It's just like as you grow up being a Christian, that's just what you think. But then as you think about it, that's not how you're a good person.
Okay. So, you stepped back from what you knew and you looked around. Were you able to come up with some examples, like was it your uncle?
No, it was just a friend.
A friend. So, were you able to come up with some examples of people that were not religious people.
Yeah.
Can you tell me some qualities on the list that they have even though they are not the Christian?
My uncle, he's not religious, but he's a teacher. So, he's helping kids and stuff and he's really nice.
My neighbor, she's really nice. You can't even tell that she's not religious. You always think she is. She's kind and friendly. She's respectful. I don't know, just really nice.
Okay. So, when we first put up our list, that was one of the qualities that were on lots of list--boom, boom, boom, then just religious. So, we had to step back from it to really stop and think about that.
Or they could be not doing their best in school but they could be a really great friend or person.
Very good. There's more than one kind of smart.
Yeah.
Do you think that having good qualities and keeping yourself with those qualities is another kind of smart?
Yes.
And you're right. I know some mentally challenged friends, people, that are some of the most kind-hearted people. Good discussion. Good going. Okay. Why  did you do happy?
Because whenever you're sad then you just have that gloomy feeling hanging over you all the time.
Yeah. And also if you're not happy all the time, you don't have it all the time, every minute--you can't just be depressed all the time. And then...
Stay in school.
Yeah. Why did we go into stay in school?
Thank you, Lexi. Come on over here, Veronica. Okay, ladies, what is your question?
We're going two ways. I kind of think that you need to be religious. Because if you go to church it helps you become a good person. But then at the same time, there's like people in the world that are really great people but they're un-relgious.
They can't be religious.
Like countries?
And they're still a good person even though they can't.
Also, we were thinking people that do go to church aren't always taking what they learn and using it in their lives.
So, you have found some examples of religious that are not exhibiting other qualities and then people who are not religious who show a lot of these qualities.
Yeah.
Okay. So, that kind of goes both ways.
I think we should delete.
I don't know. I can go both ways.
So, you can see both sides.
Yeah.
You don't have to be religious to be a good person.
Okay. So, can you set aside what your own religious beliefs are that if you believe this way, if you don't believe this way, something bad will happen to you? Can you set that aside and just look at the person's qualities?
My sister has a friend that goes to college with her and she doesn't hang out with her that much, but she doesn't believe in God. And that's her religion. But I guess that would be their religion. So, really, everybody has a religion kind of, but they can't express their religion or go to church and stuff like that.
Okay. So, which one's our leader? Jordan, you're our leader. So, do you want to take another vote and see where it stands? Okay. You're changing in a way? Okay. So, where do you stand now?
Those are all qualities that make up a good person, but again, we all had to make a decision on it. But again, other groups can have different opinions about that or different opinions on how to make a good person. So, we can think that you need to be religious but then another group can say you don't have to be religious.
Right. It's all about what this group decides.
I was also thinking about the Ten Commandments, that it has a choice. If you want to be religious, that's also putting that in mind.
Okay. So, are you leaning towards deleting or keeping?
We're just talking .
How about you, Grace?
I kind of think it's... I don't know. I think we should keep and then I think that we maybe should delete because you don't have to go to church to be a good person.
Does anybody have a personal experience in their own family of somebody who's not religious that is a really great person?
Well, like they don't go to church or they're just not like... ?
Okay. That is a great statement that Jordan made that will give us pause to think. What does "religious" mean to each one of you? So maybe that's another place to start. What does that word mean? And then that might help you decide whether to delete it or keep it.
Because going to church doesn't necessarily make you religious.
You can just walk into the church and listen to your pastor's sermon. It doesn't mean that you're a good person.
So discuss that for just a moment. Okay.
What does religious mean to you?
I think it means being saved and saying sorry for our sins and asking for forgiveness. So, that's like the main writing.
In my opinion of being religious, I think that you take what you learn in a church's sermon and you use it in your world. You know what I mean?
Yes.
If it's a very touching sermon and it's what you believe, you can take it back and you can use it to help you go through problems or whatever and then I think also religious is that you're willing to share with other people.
Yeah. You're not embarrassed.
You're not just holding back and keeping it to yourself.
No matter if people aren't religious and they'll come up to you and make fun of you here at school. You're just willing to put it aside. I used to go to a different school. I don't remember now. But he was a very, very, very good student. And for some reason, they did want to . I don't know why. I didn't figure it out. The pastor got fired because it was just a job to him. He did something very, very inappropriate that a pastor could do with another person within church. And he left because he was so embarrassed.
Why would he have been embarrassed? I would have felt bad, not just embarrassed.
And he was married. You know what I said about you have to be willing to share? Well, there was this one pastor...
Let me turn the camera on you. Hold on.
So, there would kind of be a way of saying that it doesn't really work out. So, if both sides are .
Okay. All right. Regan, let's hear again what you said about the deleting, why would you thought you would delete it.
Oh, I'm not the one who said delete.
Oh, okay.
I said delete it because I know people that are not atheist who are not--
Yes ma'am. I will tell her. Thank you. Scarlet, Vicki is not here today. Thank you, ladies, for getting quiet when the intercom rang. Now, discuss, continue.
They're still Christian but they're still just as good as any other person would be. That's why I think we should delete it. But I don't know.
Okay.
Maybe it's the way she put it because she said it changes you inside, but being Christian, it does kind of change you inside.
Okay. So, you have a person in your life that you consider to have some qualities that make them a really great person but they are not religious?
Yeah. They're not atheist but they're not Christian.
Okay Do you have anybody in your life that's not religious that you find a lot of good qualities?
My grandpa. He's not saved, but he still believes.
I guess it just depends on how the person acts.
Okay? How about you? Do you have anybody in your life?
Yeah.  named Delaney, she's an older person. But she really, really likes  her house and stuff.
And would you consider her to have qualities that make a really great person?
Yes.
But you would not consider her religious?
Oh no. But she is not really atheist, but she doesn't believe in anything. But she doesn't believe in being atheist.
So, we're kind of on the fence on this one in that some people think it needs to be deleted and others think no, it makes a difference. Do you know anybody who says that they are religious and they don't have qualities of a great person?
Yes. Some people, as soon as they get out of church, they'll go out and do stuff that wouldn't be religious.
Yeah. It's kind of like they don't have a Christian background.
They'll sit in the church room and they say, "I'm a Christian because I'm here at church," but really you go do this at other places.
So, then I guess it all boils down to what do you believe or what do you think that religious means. A lot of people would say, "Oh, I'm religious," but then like you said, spend the rest of the week doing things.
Yes. But they're kind of being truthful if they say they're not religious and they're not really religious. So, it's kind of two things--so truthful, but they're not religious.
Or maybe being a fake Christian, like sitting in church. They'll watch a football game just waiting for church to end.
But maybe that's kind of worse than saying, "I'm not a Christian," but also be a good person.
Okay. So, you're the leader in this group. Why don't you poll each other again and see if they want to now delete other people.
Okay.
So, go ahead and ask.
Okay. So, I put I'm not sure yet.
We're still not sure. That's fine. That's fine. If we're not sure yet, we don't have to put it in one side or the other yet if we're not done discussing it. This may be one that the group can't agree on.
I think it's a good thing to have, but you don't have to have it to be a good person.
Yeah.
I think we can just delete it. It is good to have, but people can be really good people and not be religious.
Everybody agree with that? If you're still thinking, "No, I don't want to say that," this is the safe place to say that. Nobody's going to kick you.
Because even religious people can also be...
