Um, that one substance, there's no other types of substances laced into the main substance.
 Okay. And what is yours?
A substance that has nothing mixed into it or added to it.
 Okay, so I hear three different things here, okay? I hear, pure means one substance, not mixed with anything else. I hear, pure is something that's not altered or manipulated in any way. And then I hear something's that natural. I want to know what your thoughts are about those three definitions. So do you agree with those three definitions or not? And tell me why. And tell them why.
Well I don't think it's natural because natural is stuff that can be mixtures.
 Can you give me examples of natural things that you think are mixtures?
Um, like trees.
 So what? And you're saying a tree is a mixture because why?
Because it like, has different colors and different like, feels to it.
 Oh, so different colors, and different feels, so like different textures? Is that what you're saying? And why does that mean that it's a mixture?
Cause it's not all the same.
How do you know?
I don't know, I don't.
What do you guys think? Do you agree with her that a tree is something that's natural, but it's a mixture? So and that was your definition, that you got natural.
I would say it's natural. Like, some things are natural, some things aren't natural, I guess, 'cause... Think about like when a diamond forms. It's a natural thing, and it's only that substance.
 Sure, I agree with you with that example. A diamond is a naturally occurring substance that is pure. But for your definition, what I want you guys to think about is a definition that's true all of the time. So, for a tree, I want us to use that example about a tree really quick. 'Cause you're saying it's a mixture, right? So you're saying it's a mixture 'cause you have different colors and different textures. Why is that statement, "different colors" an indication that it's a mixture?
Well it's, like it, .
 Okay. And a difference between substances? What is color an example of? Michelle?
 Characteristic properties?
 Characteristic property, which we know what about characteristic properties?
 It is characteristic to that one substance.
It's characteristic to that one substance. Okay? So would you change your definitions based on what we just talked about?
 Yes.
 Okay. So what I want you to do is write down what you guys now agree is the definition of pure on this piece of paper.  Okay. Hey you guys. I know you're discussing it, and I hope that you're kind of arguing against one another and defending your argument for your definitions. Here's what I'm going to have you do. Based on your conversations, it is now your job to write one definition for the word pure on this sheet of paper, that your whole group agrees on. I'll then share all those with the rest of the class to see if we're all on the same page or not. Okay? We already had one discussion where we had three different definitions. My guess is when I read what they write down, they're now going to have an agreement on what a definition is. But, I may be wrong, so let's see. Write your definition. As soon as you have it done, hold it up in the air. Pure substance, same thing. Pure, or pure substance.  Okay, so what do you want to do? What was your definition?
My definition, well, huh?
 What did you write, literally?
First time, the first time?
 Yeah, the first time. What did you write initially?
I wrote that a pure substance is a substance that is like, clean. It's not dirty or anything.
 Good, and then what did you change it to?
A pure substance is a substance that has not been touched.
 Okay, and why did you change your definition to that? Like, what made you? Did it happen because you guys talked about it?
Yeah.
 Okay, so what did he say that made you think that you should change it to "something that hasn't been touched?"
He said like, a pure substance is something that naturally comes from the Earth.
 Okay. So, you said it's something that naturally comes from the Earth. So is that what you mean by "not been touched?"
Yeah.
 So it's just natural and not manipulated by people?
Yeah.
 So it could have been literally touched, but...
Unprocessed.
 Unprocessed, okay. So, give me an example of a pure substance that naturally exists.
Um... Tree?
 Okay, so tell my why you think a tree is pure.
It hasn't been really, been really processed or anything, it's in the forest.
 Okay, so then, what do you know about color of substances?
Um... Sometimes it's a characteristic property.
 It is a characteristic property, right? Which means each substance has it's, a certain color. And for that substance it will always be that color. When you think of a tree, do you see one color, or do you see multiple colors?
Sometimes multiple.
 Multiple colors, so what is that evidence of? Multiple colors?
Characteristic property?
 It is a characteristic property, but I mean, how is having... Hey Brett? Can you please focus on what you need to be doing? Do you have your definition done?
 Yes.
 Okay, here's what I would like the rest of you guys to do, including Brett's group. You now, if you have your definition written down, I want you to go ahead and start doing number two. Give me your examples of pure substances. And give me your explanations. I'm going to give five minutes for that. That means 10:38. So... A tree has multiple colors. Green is going to be an indication of, of what? Would you be able to say that green would be an indication of one substance?
Not really.
 No, okay why not?
Because, leaves or grass. Bark is a tree.
Okay, so you're saying that more than, there's more than one substance maybe that can be green. Okay? But, okay, so that's fine. If there are different colors of green, do you think that means different substances? No? What about characteristic properties though? What do you know about a characteristic property?
It never changes for a substance.
 It never changes for a substance. So if I have two different greens, do you think I have two different substances?
No.
I would. 'Cause that's the definition of a characteristic property. Right, one green would be characteristic for that one substance, always. Never, ever something different. If I see a different color, that must mean I have a different substance. Okay? If I have two substances together, do you think that's a mixture or pure?
 Mixture.
Mixture. So, a tree. Do you see multiple colors on a tree?
Yeah.
What does that indicate?
A mixture.
A mixture of multiple substances. Is a tree natural?
Yeah.
Yeah, so does that affect your definition for pure? If you're saying it's a mixture, it can't be pure, but it's natural, so maybe our definition needs adjustment? So think about what you might change your definition to be now, okay? Okay, and write one down .  Are you done with this problem?   It's anonymous. Okay, well then--
 Water isn't, is it?
 Oh, interesting, so you guys, you don't know if water is or isn't.
You explained on the board that one time that it was a mixture of oxygen and... Something else.
 Okay, so let's... Okay, well what's the chemical formula for water?
 H two O.
H two O, so, what elements are combined to make water? Hydrogen and oxygen, okay? So I agree with you there, hydrogen and oxygen are bonded together, which makes water, okay? So do you think water is pure or a mixture?
 Well, when they do the water definition, we were trying to decide like, if something's straight, like we could some  not a mixture .
 Okay.
 Then is it pure? Okay, I'm going to read your definition really quick, okay? So a pure substance is a raw substance. Nothing inside of a pure substance has been changed or added, it came straight from nature. There is no trace of any other substance. It is not a mixture. Okay, I see two definitions in there. Here's what I see. I see a definition that talks about it being, I see three. One, your definition is, "something that "comes from nature." Another one I see is, "Something that "has not been changed." Another one I see is, "no trace of another substance." So that sounds like one substance. Okay, those are the three definitions I see.
 But is there a substance from nature that hasn't been changed?
 No.
 Water is a substance from nature that hasn't been changed. I mean, yeah, we add things to it.
It hasn't been changed, but it is a mixture.
 Is it a mixture though?
Yeah.
But what about when like, animal live in it and stuff, does it change?
 So you're kind of thinking maybe it gets contaminated that way? If it gets in contact with something else?
Yeah, if they're even from nature .
 So here's what, today, we should be able to figure out by the end of the period. And you guys pretty confidently should be able to tell me if water is or is not pure. Here is my hint. My hint to you, is the way we can tell by looking at something, if it's pure or a mixture, 'cause you can, or maybe not just by looking, but experimenting with it. It's based on characteristic properties of matter. That's what I want you to think about.
So, it's just the primary colors, then?
 What do you mean?
 Primary colors?
Well, the primary colors, I don't know. It's just that color .
 So is color a characteristic property of matter? Yes. What does that mean then?
 Wait, but can't you change it? When something's a color? But when you add one color to... Something . Like if I add a color to the water, doesn't it change the water?
 When you add a color into water, it mixes with the water.
So it's not still water?
It still tastes like water?
 I didn't say that. I just said it was mixed.
 It's a mixture, oh.
Okay, I didn't say that either, but,
 If you put the food coloring in it...
So, and why are you saying that's all of a sudden a mixture? Because they're .
 So different substances together, okay. So what then does "pure" mean?
Not mixed, a substance by itself.
 A substance by itself. So you believe water is just a substance. Okay? Alright. Alright you guys! These crutches are going to kill me. Are you okay? Those hurt, you're hurt. Okay, you're okay.  We're going to talk about it right now, okay? Do I have everybody's piece of paper? Are you done? Okay.  This is not true.
 Really?
 Yes. Alright, turn here and stop what you're doing. Listen to what? What I want, I know that you may not be done with your examples yet. Because you're still struggling with your definition of pure. I want to show you what other groups are thinking. So I'm going to show you all these. I'll ready them for you too so that, you're going to see that we have differences. And the idea is, by the end of today, based on what we do, you should be able to change and finalize your definition. Okay? And competently be able to give me examples. Alright? So, the first one, and I'll try to move this. Let's make sure you can see this. If it's hard to see Tim, will you turn off, actually why don't you go ahead and do that now Tim? I think it will be better. I don't know. But just the front set of lights? Thank you. We'll come down. Okay. The first definition. "An unprocessed material which is one "substance by itself, instead of combining "multiple substances to get the material." I see two different definitions. I see one, "pure means to be unprocessed," and then I see another, "one substance by itself." Okay? Here's another one. "A pure substance is only one substance "that is not a mixture." So you're starting to see that pure and mixture, which I will agree with, are basically opposites of one another. So you've got to explain the difference between them. So a pure substance is one substance that is not a mixture. So I'm wondering what your definition of mixture is. Who wrote, does anyone? Who wrote this one, are you willing to share? Do you have a definition for mixture then?
 Um well, multiple substances that are mixed together.
 Good so, you're saying, so great, your definition for pure is one substance, while mixture would be more than one substance. Okay. This one says "a substance that has no mixture involved." So you're saying that there's a clear difference between the two. I still don't quite see a definition for the word "pure" yet in this definition. "A pure substance is a substance with "no other substances mixed in." "It is one single substance." So I'm starting to see a little bit of a trend. "A pure substance is a raw substance." "Nothing inside of a pure substance has been "changed or added." "It came straight from nature." "There's no trace of any other substance." "It is not a mixture." So, we definitely have agreement that mixture and pure are something different, but I see three definitions. One, it's something that is raw, or something that, and I think this is what this is saying. Correct me if I'm wrong, but you mean by "raw," kind of, in some way connected to natural. Okay, so, something that is natural versus something that has no trace of any other. So I kind of see the idea of one substance versus multiple. Okay, as a definition. Okay, maybe I only saw two. Okay. Oh I thought this one was typed. I was like, "How did that happen?" How did... Was that you, is that your handwriting? That's insane. Okay, I like it. It's like, prefect.
 Woah.
 Okay.
 There you go.
 Alright. "A pure substance is a substance or material "that hasn't been mixed with any other substance." "It is only one substance." Okay, um. Two.  Two more. "A substance is only one substance, "and it is not mixed with any other substance," right? And our last one. Oh, this one's actually different. "A pure substance is an element." Okay that's a different definition than the other things I've heard. "They are made up of one atom." "They are not mixed with other substances "nor do they contain other substances within them." So I hear two definitions in here. One, being pure means that it's just an element. And then I see another one that it's a single substance. Okay? So I want to hear some of the examples you're coming up with right now. And I'm not going to say if they're right or wrong, I'm just going to try to probe you with some questions. Okay? Naud! What is one of your examples?
 Salt.
 Okay, so you say salt is pure. Why do you say salt is pure?
Because we don't think any other substance is combined with salt to make salt.
 So you're saying that to be pure means one thing, one thing in that container, and you're saying if it's just salt, that must be pure?
 Mm hmm.
 Okay. Miriam.
 It has to be raw and like, like, plain, like raw salt. Like, not like mixed with preservatives or...
 Okay, so literally just salt, that's it.
 Yea.
Okay. Alright, so let's take another example. Or if you disagree with them, you can also offer up your argument for that. Shaina, what do you think?
