Has more light around him and it goes off into this huge dark hole through the trees.
Why do you think it's more light around him?
I don't know. Just to show that, to bring him more into the main point that you should see when you look at the picture.
What is the dark force symbolizing? Why is it a dark force? Why isn't it, like, a bright light? Yeah.
I don't know. It kind of reminds me of what Jack said. Dante started going through the forest. It kind of reminds me of his travel of starting to go to the layers of hell and stuff. Hell's not a very bright place so it reminds me of that.
One thing, the light and religious paintings. Jesus has a light around his head so it might symbolize how he's pure or more religious. But--
What'd you say?
I said but Dante isn't pure so why would they highlight someone who wasn't as pure as like Jesus?
Okay, so I want to come your statement in a moment, because Kailyn had something to offer. Why do you say he's not pure? Is there any indication that he's not pure?
Well it's kind of an inference because he's man. We all assume that the purity is in God or Jesus or Buddha or whatever. He's not because he's man and men have faults. Women have faults. A human being is just not divine, I guess.
But it says in the text that he gets angry with people who are not true to their religion and their beliefs politically and religiously. So he kind of is the most pure one. Not like Godlike but he is more pure than the rest, I believe.
So do you think that's why Dante went to hell in the first place? To go see all the bad people? Do you think he was going there to learn a lesson? Or going there to prove that he was right?
Because remember this is a fictional. This is fictional. So can a character... 'cause you're right we infer that man is sinful. But can a fictional character be perfect? Can be flawless? Can be sinless? And if so, is Dante trying to go a different way of inference. Is he trying to infer that he is, from what you've said, that he wants to find out more of what sins are so he can make himself pure if he's not already. So can a fictional character be pure?
One of the questions I think was the three beasts he encounters and what do they represent. I kind of thought that they represented what he does or what he did and everything. Like a wake up call. You're going to go see all of these people who have done things similar to that so you kind of want to change your ways. They were reminding him what he has done and what he did because he was violent because he was in that guild kind of thing. He was considered a fraud by the other team I guess side. So I think it's more of a like he's going to there to see what happens when you don't be the best you could be, I guess.
Who judges where you go? Is it the devil or is it a higher power?
I thought it was the gods that judged that.
Are there gods in this story? Do we ever hear much about the gods?
We aren't sure about the gods.
Yeah, really.
Who judges where all these people go? Cause they're talking about all the famous people and the places they are but who decides that?
We didn't really read the hell part as opposed to the...
Yeah, yeah.
So maybe in the other books it would explain.
Where the gods are.
And you said who judges where they go and everything? Technically we don't know what supreme being judges that because all we know is the devil is on the bottom eating Brutus, Cassius and Judas. But in the book, on page 41, lines 8-9, Minos is the one who discover the crimes and dictates where they go. So he's kind of like boss of hell sort of. Forty-one lines eight and nine.
I have a question. Are their crimes so bad to the point that they go to hell or is it just because they made like sins or something?  Because everybody makes them so would that make everybody go to hell?
That's what I find too 
Meaningful. But in their own perspective they are different
Individual, yeah. So do you think that the layers of hell are how bad of the thing that the person did like how far? What do you think depends on how far you go down--
Like, the pain increases?
One of my questions are, are the punishments of different people different based on who they are or what they do?
I think it's what they do but through their actions they can kind of be defined as who they are. I think the layers of hell go down as the pain and suffering increases related to their crimes
Couldn't it be like their pain and suffering for all of eternity is based off of all the pain and suffering that they had caused others in life? For instance, in Limbo. All these babies that had died and weren't baptized are now there but they hadn't really hurt anybody so they're not being quite as punished as, let's say, Judas who's in the center of hell having his head gnawed on. He caused a lot of pain and suffering therefore we was given a greater punishment for what he had done
So it depends on who they put it on.
Yeah.
So if they just keep it to themselves? Like, gouging out the eyes. That's not really hurting anyone else.
Right. Where's the gouging of the eyes? Where did you just pull that from? What piece did we read where the eyes were gouged out?
Oh, I'm sorry I got confused. Oedipus?
Oedipus.
He punished himself for it in a weird way. But, do you think that his punishment would not go as far because he didn't torture other people?
Think before you respond. Think about it because I want you to respond to this. This is huge. I want you to write your question down on a piece of paper and then their responses to it because you have probably just now created a thesis for an essay we're going to do for the end of the year.
Okay.
So write down your question. Mainly she has brought up, just like I heard you guys doing with these pictures, a different text. Didn't you bring up the Odyssey with this?
Yeah.
Do you want me to write Oedipus specifically?
Yep, write down the gouging of Oedipus' eyes. Where would Oedipus have ended up in Dante's Inferno?
Okay, so pretty much--
Yep. And I want you guys to answer and then I'll move on and come back. I love how you bring in another text. That's one reason I brought this picture in, so you guys hit on that. I love that you brought this up. This is real higher order thinking because at the end of this year our essay for you guys for the final is to bring in the texts that we've read and you have to develop a theme so right there's a good start. Okay, you ready for them to answer it?
Yeah.
Okay.
The pain that Oedipus caused wasn't intentional. So I don't really think he'd be punished as harshly. I do believe that he'd be punished due to the fact that he did kill his father and I believe a couple other people during that fight. So, he would be punished but I don't believe that the gouging of his eyes would lessen any of the punishment. 'Cause, really, he didn't knowingly go into the incest and do that intentionally. So really, he shouldn't be punished for something that he didn't know he was doing.
But he still killed somebody.
He did kill somebody. And the gouging of his eyes, I don't think would lessen that. I think it was more of a pain in life lesson for him. Although, It did cause him a lot of pain, I believe the guilt that he faced caused him greater pain than his actual gouging of his eyes.
May I clarify something really quick here? So you're saying basically, because she asked where in hell would he be? So f+irst of all, what level do you think he'd be? Gouging eyes or not, where would he be in hell? Where would Dante run into him?
He would be with the murderers.
With the murderers, okay. So you're saying that he wouldn't be any more in depth than that simply because of his gouging.
No.
That is just his own--
Retribution.
Yeah.
He did that to lessen the guilt in his life--
In himself.
'Cause the guilt was much more painful than him gouging out his eyes.
And also, even delivering pain to yourself can get you in hell with, like, suicides.
Right.
'Cause there's the whole ring where like people kill themselves and they go to hell. Or they destroy their possessions. I didn't quite understand it completely but it seemed to say destroying items that they had, I don't know, maybe a couch or something. If you destroyed that, you'd go to hell because they destroyed their own items.
Right, right. In Circle Nine, and that's what important about this, in Circle Nine, those people that destroyed or  take from. You know, you have Canna after Cain. Everything is allegorical. Every part of Circle Nine, there's an allegory. There's Ptolemy, there's Cain. Everybody is compared or made allegorical in there for their sins. Because of what they did to humanity. Like Ptolemy murdered people in his-- In his-- He was a ruler. He just murdered people. Mass murders. So, he was put in there as a comparison to that kind of sin. That Hitler type of sin. So everybody in that level, too. Which would be interesting to see. Talk about some of our other literature. Talk about The Odyssey a little more.
I have one more question about sin. Do you think, is everyone's definition of sinning the same?
Actually, I don't believe so. 
We were just talking how everybody lies but how are some still in Limbo.
Goes along with what he said was, "no, I didn't steal" so you stole and then you lied.
Yeah.
So you double dipped.
So you half and did different things.
Oh interesting, so what'd you come to?
We came to they'd go to the serious one.
Yeah.
Whichever one's more serious
Why? Basically the one thing that impacted the world more, like in a bad way, is going to take the worse punishment. So if I stole a penny, or I lied to the king, I'd probably get punished for lying to the king. That's what we kind of came up with.
Yeah.
So I want to ask you a question. If you're saying you lied and then you lie about lying, or you steal and you lie about lying.
I don't steal, sorry.
Yeah, they're two crimes and this person has chosen to commit two crimes. Okay, so does that play into that?
Would you suffer twice the punishment then?
No, it doesn't bring up any of that in Dante's. Basically everybody's got the same punishment.
But still wouldn't you get like harsher--
Well, depending on the circle.
Yeah, but some people in the circles do have worse punishments than other people.
Will you give me an example?
Well, let's see. Ulysses, and I forget the other guy's name, they are in the same flame and I think he said the flame was burning brighter. I would assume that'd be a worse punishment than other people if they're burning --
If they're burning, yeah.
Some of the less worse... um... lesser punishments.  It's like magicians get their heads turned backwards. You could see where you've been but you wouldn't cry over it. Unless getting stabbed to death and then healing and then getting stabbed to death again
Yeah
Then your flesh getting eaten off over and over and over again.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I want to ask you guys a question because we've studied pictures all year long and there was one when we were studying Oedipus. And I don't know who in this group had this one when you were doing those folders together, but there is, what is her name, Antigone's brother's name that was dead...
Polynices.
Yeah, Polynices.
Was it the one where she was like leaning over his body?
Yeah, by the rock.
Yeah.
Okay, now that you've read The Inferno, do some of those photos from some of these other stories and poems tie together or relate or reoccur?
I can relate. 
Okay talk to me about that.
Because it reminds me of Dante being lost in the forest  in the beginning and then it reminds me of how Oedipus gouged his eyes out and couldn't see anything and so he didn't know which path to take. He had to rely on somebody else. He had to rely on Virgil to get him through what was to come. Then Oedipus, he had to rely on Antigone to tell him where to go and trust her with his life basically.
Nice. Nice.
That's what I got.
Well as I walk away I want you guys, 'cause I'm going to leave this here. I want you guys to talk about other literature. 'Cause you said yes, I can relate some. You just did. I would like for you to relate.
All right.
Okay.
Okay.
