 All right. So, I showed you all that video for three reasons. Number one, I want you to see that volleyball is not a girl's sport. Here in the South a lot of people think of volleyball as a girl sport because we don't have a lot of male high school volleyball teams. I don't know why, we just don't. That's a common misconception, that volleyball is a girl's sport. Everybody in that video was a male. Everybody in that video was over 50 years of age. That means volleyball is a lifetime activity. Raise your hand if you can take a guess at what a lifetime activity is. Yes ma'am.
 A lifetime activity is something you can do when you're older.
 A lifetime activity is something you can do basically for the rest of your life. Would golf be a lifetime activity?
 No.
 Golf?
 Yes.
 Golf would be a lifetime activity. There's people 70, 80, 90 years old that are playing golf. As a matter of fact, playing golf is an accomplishment, to be able to go out and shoot your age. So, I'm if I'm 70 and I go out and shoot a good. Golf is a lifetime activity. How about bowling?
 Yes.
 How about tackle football?
 No.
 No. Tackle football would not be a lifetime activity. If I was to go to the YMCA, do you think I would be able to find a league to sign up for tackle football at my age?
 No.
 No. Can I go out to the YMCA and find a volleyball league for somebody my age?
 Yeah.
 Yes. So, volleyball is what we consider a lifetime activity. Something you can do the rest of your life. Okay, the third thing, those guys were pretty good.
 Mmhmm.
 And they were pretty athletic. So by playing volleyball and staying active, you're going to be more athletic than a lot of people that are your age. So, not only is volleyball a lifetime activity, it's going to help you stay in shape, help you stay active, okay? First thing we're going to do is the serve. With the serve there are a few things we need to remember, okay? First thing I want us to remember with the serve is that the ball must stay at the waist. When we hit it out of our hand, we want it to stay at our waist. If I hold the ball up here and I hit, the ball is going to go up. It's all about the angles, okay? If I hit the ball right here it's going to go up and out like I want  it to go, all right? So, then I want to hit it at my waist. Second thing that we're going to remember is that my opposite foot needs to be forward. If I hit it with my right hand, I want my left leg to be up front, like this. What other activities have we done that your opposite foot is forward? Yes?
 Catching.
 Throwing, right? With the overhand throw we step with our opposite foot. What else? Yes, ma'am?
 The underhand toss.
 The underhand toss, that is exactly right. I think Ms. Beldo taught y'all the underhand toss. Step, tick-tock point. Which foot do we step with?
 The opposite.
 The opposite foot. Do you see a trend? Can you make a little connection there? Opposite foot forwards, okay? Now, the next things that I want you to remember kind of go hand in hand. They are tick-tock. Tick-tock looks like this. Tick. Tock. Pretty easy, right? Tick. Tock. Tick, I want to pull it back. Back here. Tock, our arm is coming forward. Now, we are going to add a little something to the tock part. All the tock, when we do tock, I want you standing like this and do tock. When we do tock, we are actually going to transfer our weight from our back foot going forward into the front foot. What do you think that's going to do? If we transfer that weight forward. Yes?
 If we transfer our weight forward it's going to put more pressure.
 It's going to put more pressure on the ball. Am I plugging it harder or softer?
 Harder.
 Harder. It's going to produce more force. Right? I'm going to hit the ball harder if I do this than if I do this. Does that make sense? Because you're getting that momentum going forward. It's just like in baseball. If I'm playing baseball and I'm standing in the outfield, am I going to throw it harder if I do this or if I do this?
 The one with more force.
 The second one, right? Because my momentum is going forward. Does that make sense? So, my momentum is going forward. Just like in four square. If I'm playing four square and I want to hit the ball and I'm trying to get somebody out in four square am I going to hit it harder if I do this or if I do this?
 That.
 The second one. I get my force from the momentum going forward. That's right, and the last thing I want you to remember with the serve is the follow through. Follow the ball, John will you stand up please? If I want the ball to go to John, my follow through should be towards John, right? If I want the ball going towards the flag, my follow through...
 The flag.
 ...towards the flag. If I want the ball going to the cougar, my follow through...
 The cougar.
 ...going to the cougar. But right now we're working on hitting it straight so my follow through goes to my target. Watch, see me take everything out. Ball's at my waist, my opposite foot is forward, tick...
 Tock.
 Tock, just like that. Okay? We'll do it a little bit farther. Ready, John? Opposite foot forward, ball at the waist, tick, tock. All right. Did you see everything that we had just talked about? Opposite foot forward, ball at the waist, tick, transfer my weight into tock. All right.
 You're kind of hitting it like that.
 I hit it.
 Good. That's great.  Tony, you ready? ...Tony? You ready? Tossin' it up and hittin' it...
And stop just a second, put the ball on the ground. Ball on the ground. A lot of people are doing a good job getting that opposite food forward, but they're not transferring their weight to that foot, they're getting that opposite foot forward and they're standing like this. Am I going to generate much force by doing this?
 No.
 Think about baseball. I could step with that opposite foot, but if I step and then throw is that helping me generate any force?
 No.
 No. I want to step into it. Same way in baseball. When I throw a baseball, I want to step and throw at the same time to get my momentum going forward. We're generating force. So, instead of... Tony, are you ready? Instead of this, opposite foot forward and...like that. I want to generate more force, so I'm going to start with my weight back here and go into it. You see the difference? Ball on the ground please.
 Yes. So, work on generating that force going forward. Okay? Continue. Go.  And... stop just a second. Ball on the ground. All right. One more way that we're going to try to generate force is by following through after we hit the ball. So, instead of... Alex, are you ready? I'm going to serve this to you. Instead of doing this, kind of almost like you're punching the ball and stopping, I'm going to follow through to my target. If Alex is my target, my arm should finish up here at my target. Watch. Do you see the difference in the force between punching it and following through to your target? So, that's another thing to work on. Remember,  if you are doing a good job with the ball that you've got, you can switch to another ball. If you've got one of these big yellow ones and you're doing perfect every time I would recommend switching to either this or one of the yellow and blue ones. Challenge yourself a little bit. Let's go ahead and switch stations so that if you were here, one person walk up here and get a clipboard and paper so you can leave notes for your partner. If you were over there, come over here.
If you weren't over here just put your clipboard on the steps there. 
And everybody stop. Put the ball on the ground just a second. No balls in the air. Everybody stand up. Everybody stand up. Alright, put everything on the ground. Everybody should have to free hands. Together, let's work on tick, transfer your weight through to your target. Ryan, go in his place. Tick, arm back, transfer weight, follow through to your target. I still see some people doing this. Where's that ball going to go?
 That way.
 That way. If I'm aiming at the... Ball on the ground. If I'm aiming at the white poster, my follow through is to the white poster. Everybody pick out a target. Tick, step, follow through. Go. Pick out a target, tick, step, follow through. 
Go get that ball. We'll get you another ball. Who can raise their hand and tell me the first thing we need to remember for the volleyball serve. Yes, sir?
  
 The first thing we talked about. Yes, ma'am?
  
 The ball should be at your-
 Waist.
 The ball's at your waist. And what is that going to impact? And what's it going to influence?
 How far the ball goes.
 It's going to influence how far the ball goes. All right? So, if the ball is up here, it's going to go where?
 Up.
 Up. If I'm down here, the ball's going to go... Go out, so I want to add my weight in order to get that angle so the ball will go over the net and drop. What's the second thing to remember? Yes, sir?
Boy] 
Remember, it's what we talked about with the underhand throw, four square, and the overhand throw. Our opposite foot is...
 Forward.
 Forward, right. Our opposite foot is forward. Like this. What's the third thing.
 Shift your weight.
 I want to shift my weight. We actually did tick-tock when I talk about shifting my weight, but shifting our weight is one of the most important things, because that is how we produce--
