 Most friends have finished their first trials. I wanted to talk real quick about what's happened on your first trial. Who wants to share what happened on your first three trials? And I want to know was it something that you predicted would happen? Cody?
 At first we kinda got a little, it kind of got a little complicated. Since you came around it fixed it a little.
 Why was it complicated, cause the rest of the group didn't see your experiment. Why was it complicated?
 Because it keep turning and the wax paper was--
 What kept turning?
 The car
 Your car kept turning?
 Yeah and the wax paper  kept coming off and turning it. So it was a little complicated.
 So after you got it fixed, and after I helped you then what did you find out?
 That it was kind of easy to do.
 So did your measurement, did that end up being what you predicted it was going to be? When it closed did you think the car was going to travel that far or did you think it was gonna go a shorter distance?
 We thought it was gonna-- I thought it was gonna go very far. Because that's a little bit slicker.
 Because that it's slippery. Well I was listening to another group talk about something, I think it was at Bhavana's group, raise your hand if you're in Bhavana's group. And really deep had really good observation. Because they were thinking that it was gonna go a little bit farther too. But you told me something about the surface that we were testing on.
 I said the... the wax paper was a little bit smooth and the carpet was a little bit rough.
 So do you guys agree that the wax paper being smooth and the carpet that we're testing on being rough, if you agree that that has anything to do with how far the car's going to travel, give me a thumb's up. I think that makes a difference. Lucy, why do you think it makes a difference?
 The carpet, there's a  feel of bumps if you could feel it, and the wax paper is slippery. So that's how it makes the difference cause slippery kind of makes stuff fast, like if they have wheels or something, it makes stuff fast.
 That's true. So as we get ready for our next test, you probably only will have time to do maybe one trial. But I want you to predict, now that you've kind of explored the wax paper and you know how far the car will travel, looking at your information, your measurements, I want you to talk with your group about how far you think the car will go on the bumpy surface. And we're choosing to use the shelf liner today. The black shelf liner in your tub. Do you think the car's going to go farther or a shorter distance than what you measured on your first trial? We may only get through one trial. And that is okay. Alright but I want you to talk about it with your groups first and then start. So Lawson what are you gonna do first before you test?
 Get in a group meeting and sit down and meet
 Yeah and talk about your predictions first. That's what good scientists do. They're always making really good predictions about what they've observed. Alright. Go. 
 I'm setting the timer.
 I think it will go really bumpy, well not really bumpy but a little bumpy. And it might go just a little less than the smooth.
 I think that it will go slower because the surface it's really bumpy and one time I went on this bumpy slide and I did not go down very quickly. 
 Don't worry about recording the information right now but we'll record in a little bit.
 I think they're gonna go a little bit far.
 I bet slower.
 Hey, you can't pick off of me!
 I think that it's gonna go farther and faster.
 I think it's gonna go a little bit farther and a little bit faster.
 I think it's gonna go a little bit slower.
 I think it's  kind of gonna go, since it's bumpy it's gonna slow it down.
 I think it was gonna go farther.
 Group meeting's over! 
 So you think it's gonna go faster than it did on the wax paper?
 No I think it's going a little bit slower but still a little fast, like medium.
 So you don't think it's gonna change that much, why do you think that?
 Cause it doesn't feel too too bumpy.
 It doesn't feel too too bumpy, she's making a really good observation. What do you think Jaylin?
 My predict is  when you put the car on it it's gonna kinda go medium, it might go a little bit slower and a little bit fast, and then when it gets to the carpet it's gonna go slower and then it's gonna turn.
 It's gonna go a lot slower and then it's going to turn?
 I think like that fast.
 Okay.
 Not too fast, not as fast as the wax paper
 Go ahead and test but let's think about your setup here. Before you move this, let's look at your setup. As the car rolls, what would happen maybe if it stays in motion until it gets to that green rug? What might happen?
 It might get stopped.
 Remember the car's going to continue to move until something makes it stop. So what might you want to do with your ramp?
 We might want it to  be here so it will go straighter?
 But it might bump  into the black box.
 It may, well you know the rug is going to--
 I don't mean there, but I mean...
 I know what we could do, we could do it this way so it won't crash.
 Well you could either move it over just a little bit so that it has nothing in its way.
 Javier could you go get us some tape?
 It may not even need tape it might cling to it without the tape. Try it and see.
 Let's try it without some.
 Yeah it doesn't even need tape.
 Who's the task manager here?
 Me
 Look out he's doing the first test.
 I think it should be Jaylin.
 Okay, Jaylin now do you test sideways, we talked about this yesterday when you wouldn't agree. And you guys talked about that if some friends tested sideways and some friends teted behind the ramp that it may make a difference. Then you guys said you wanted to keep it the same.
 Javier can you move out of the way?
 You ready?
 Now wait a minute, wait a minute. Cause I bet you probably got his on tape. Jaylin show me how you did that again, go get the car. Watch what he did with his popsicle stick. Cause I hadn't seen that before. Do it just like you did the first time. What did he do with his popsicle stick?
 He flipped it down
 Do you think that makes a difference in your test if he flips it down or raises it up? Why might it make a difference Olivia?
 Because it might, when you put it down you're putting it down fast and I bet it makes the car go a little bit faster. And it gives it some force.
 Did it give it more force? So, Jaylin is this surface the same as this surface? Is this the same as this?
 Yes, I think
 Is this popsicle stick the same as this here?
 No.
 So if you test the car on this and this is that going to be the same as testing it on something bumpy?
 No.
 So what do you need to do with the popsicle stick?
 Raise it up.
 You might want to raise it up next time. Alright? Try it again. I'll come back and see if you guys are ready.
 One, two, and go!
 Wow that was great!
 Now let's start measuring
 Now we're gonna start measuring.
 Okay 
 Okay, one, two...
 No, Tessa's gotta do that.
 One, two three ready.
 Oh my gosh we were right.  
 Our first prediction is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight! 
 It's eight!
 Oh my gosh!
 Why's it eight? 
 And ours keeps getting a mess up!
 I predicted eight, too, see?
 I predicted seven mostly.
 We got eight cubes on this one
 Eight cubes, really? Before we clean up I would like for you to have a quick group meeting about what you learned about the different surfaces so far. Quickly sit down with your group and have a quick group meeting. I'm gonna come around and be watching. Quick, quick, quick! It's almost time for us to go.
 About what you learned?
 What you learned today about the wax paper and the bumpy surface that you used, the shelf liner. What did you learn from what you tested?
 I learned that the bumpy surface made it go, that bumpy makes things go slower and that smooth makes things go faster.
 How do you know that?
 Because when we use the smooth it went further
 How far did it go?
 It went about-- 
 eight cubes.
 No
 I think it actually went seven. I don't know we didn't put the lines behind it.
 36 about further than this because it went 36 or so and this only went eight cubes. So that makes it the point where bumpy is slower.
 So 35 on the wax and only eight on the bumpy? The shelf liner?
 I think it was seven on the bumpy.
 Big difference isn't it? Is that what you predicted?
 No I didn't predict eight
 I predicted 16
 No I didn't predict on the bumpy, but I predicted... I predicted one and I got the right answer for it on smooth.
 Alright. Well you guys have two more trials to do so we'll see if your numbers are close when you use trial two and three. Alright? Go ahead and get cleaned up.
 We already cleaned most of them first
 Well no you need to clean all your things up everything back in your tub. You can go ahead and record your data but we're gonna get cleaned up. Go ahead and get cleaned up.
 Alright push the red button, you can push the red button. Mary, come over here. Tell us what you learned.
 Okay Mary, come over here.
 I learned that different surfaces can make something different, whatever you're testing make it go fast and slow.
Javier] Mary what did you learn?
 I learned mostly the same thing except when we did that, you know how this is less bumpy than the carpet? It makes this go faster than the carpet, which makes a difference.
 Yeah. Jaylin what did you learn?
 I learned if you put the car on this it's gonna go a little bit faster. If you put it on this it's gonna go a little bit almost fast. And it's gonna stop and go slower and that's why it went right there.
 Okay does anybody have anything else?
 Javier what did you learn?
 Well I learned that if it's smoother it's quicker. But if it's a little bumpy, it's slower. That's it.
 Alright everyone put  your things in the bucket. 
