Today I'm going to introduce to you our new project, and it's based on the concept of surrealism. When you look at this word, you should recognize a smaller word within it. Does anyone recognize the smaller word?
Real.
Real, that's right. The word "real." And we know real is the way things really look when we see them, or the way they appear. But the word "sur" transforms that word. And because this is a French word, "sur" means "beyond." So now what the word "surrealism" implies is beyond reality, or the way things really appear. So what does that look like? It looks very dreamlike. It doesn't necessarily make sense. A lot of different things go on in surrealism, and I'm going to show you a few examples right now. These are the three characteristics that we're going to focus on. The first characteristic is out of place objects. If you look at this example up here, what's out of place in this picture? Can anyone tell me? Trevor?
The guy's face.
What's over his face, just floating there? Can anyone tell? You're up close, Matthew. You see what that is?
An apple.
It's a green apple, okay? And that is an out of place object. Definitely surreal. These are examples of surrealism. This example right here. What's in here, Jordan?
Train.
There's a train coming out of a fireplace. Okay, again, an out of place object. These are two examples of one of those characteristics of out of place objects. Another characteristic that you see are unreal scenes. Scenes that do not make sense. They're beyond real. What's going on in this scene? Kurt?
There's, like, giant butterflies.
Yeah. The butterflies grew. They're huge. Now they're like the props on the windmills. What's going on in this? Can anyone tell? What makes that surreal? John?
Like, huge makeup.
Yeah, the si-, again, the size of such little things grew tremendously, and they're filling up the room. Also, the interior of the room is now looking like the sky. So what made these unreal is the artist changed something that was small and made it really, really big. The last characteristic that we see in surrealism is... there it is. Normal objects acting abnormally. So in these examples I'll go through real quickly. Do you see these clocks? They're not acting normally. These clocks are melting, they're dripping, they're stretching, they're falling down. You can see that. In this one, the artist drew a person looking into the mirror, but does he see his reflection?
No.
No. The mirror's not operating normally. It's surreal. It's beyond real. What it's doing is it's showing the back of his head. And again, in this one, it's kind of hard to tell, but there are three swans, and the reflection is of three elephants. So the reflection in the water is not acting normally. These are three characteristics of surrealism, all right? So why surrealism? Why this style of art? Does anyone have any guesses of why anyone, or why these artists created something like this? Yeah?
Because it's like a modern form of art.
Okay, yeah. That's actually a very good definition. Cara?
Maybe to make it look interesting.
Okay, good.
To make it look funny.
Okay, good. Guys, those are all excellent, excellent answers. Here is another thing that went into surrealism. Like lots of art, it's influenced by what's going on around it or what happened before it. So these three boxes represent three other styles of art that influenced the ideas of surrealism. And the first style of art is known as Dada art. This type of art is where the artist took things, and they tried to make something that wasn't considered art. They took random objects, like a bicycle wheel and the stool, and put it together and said, "Okay, this is not art." And that was an example of the style. They also took a famous painting like the Mona Lisa, scribbled mustache and a beard. There it is. That's not art. And that was really the whole idea of Dada. It was like anti-art. Another thing that influenced surrealism was symbolism. Symbolism was a style of art in which the artist tried to depict an idea of something. And in this example, it's the idea of death. There's this dark angel depicted over this man, who's already halfway down in the ground. All this white snow that symbolizes life around him. And it was just the idea of what that might look like using symbols. And that's what that one depicts. The other example, or another influence of surrealism, is metaphysical painting. This one's very, very hard to understand, and that's what the idea was with the style. It was to kind of paint an unreal or illogical situation. Basically one in which you do not know what you're looking at. You don't know what the objects are. You might know something, but you don't know why it's there or what part of it it is. And it's very, very illogical and doesn't make sense. These three styles of art in the boxes influenced surrealism. So when you look at these three styles of art, you can kind of see what they led to. They led to this style of art, which is known as surrealism. So now... where to start. Here's what's going on today. Today, you are going to start with... and you can open your folders up, and you'll see this slide. What we're going to do is we're going to start drawing today. We are going to start by making a connection, all right? And if you look at this example up here on the board, or, and you can look at your slides, too. What we're going to do... you can just take your stuff off, Leann, leave it back there, and then join your table, okay? What we're going to do is I want you to come up with something that means something to you, and that's like your theme to start with. Maybe it's a hobby, an activity, a memory, anything that's meaningful to you, that's your starting point. Then what we have to do is we have to give it an element of surprise. So these are our options that I just discussed. Those are the characteristics. Do you want to move it around, change the location of it? Do you want to make the sizes different and create an unreal scene? Or do you want to make objects in it doing something that they shouldn't be doing? Let me give you an example. Lily, what's your favorite food?
Strawberries.
Strawberries. What's your favorite holiday, Joe?
Christmas.
Jacob, what's your favorite animal?
A dog.
Okay. So this is my surrealist example to you. You have a Christmas tree, but instead of a Christmas tree, you have a big strawberry standing up with decorations on it, and then you have dogs putting those decorations on it. So that's kind of an example of taking things that are meaningful to you and putting them into a surrealist example. These are some examples that I have that I did. These are some of my drawings. This first one, and sometimes you don't even know where these drawings are coming from. I wanted to take an object and stretch it. I wanted to make it act abnormally. So I chose a spoon. And what I did was I thought, well, a spoon needs to catch something. So this spoon is stretching out trying to catch the raindrops. Why? Because it's really dry wherever it is. You can see all the cracks. So that was kind of like my first idea. The second sketch that I did was I wanted to do something with a tropical type of a setting. An unreal scene in an unreal place. So what I thought was, well, pineapples are tropical. Why not cut open a pineapple, and there is my tropical beach with all the little palm trees, okay? You're probably wondering what we're going to do with these. Today is sketching, but what's going to happen is this is going to turn into a watercolor painting. This is an example of what the painting might look like when it's all done. I chose the pineapple one, all right? So we are going to be doing a watercolor painting, but today we need to kind of come up with ideas of what that painting's going to look like. Up here on the board, I think this is going to help you a lot. This is a bunch of different examples of surrealist paintings, and there's a variety of different things that the artist has done. They might be food, they might be animals, they might be instruments, they might be people, they might be landscapes. There's lots of things to look at. I want you to use this as your primary resource to help you and guide you through your drawings. I'm going to give you paper right now. Use this sheet. Start with making a connection, all right? Start with making a connection, and then look at the different options and ways that you can make it surreal, all right?
How do you draw hands?
Hands? That's... okay, hands. You know what? This is just a sketch. So this is a detail that doesn't... or this is a part that you don't really need to worry about. So tell me what's going on. What makes this surreal?
Um...
That's what I want to know.
Because it's the birthday party in the present.
Okay. So which of these options do you think you're focusing the most on?
This one.
Okay, and why?
Because a present usually doesn't open.
Okay, so the present, so the party is within the present. So the present gets opened up, and then there's a party. Okay. What else can we do to make it, like, maybe a little bit more, like, bam, something going on? That's the only thing I was thinking about, you know? Like, maybe...
Like balloons and...
Yeah, balloons. Like, they're com-, they're flowing out. That'd be really cool. All right, that's good.
What should I, like, do for, like, for, like, the face? The face on a...?
Baseball.
Baseball. And what are we using for the parts of the face?
So this is a baseball bat.
Okay.
And I...
Okay.
These are the baseball bases.
Oh, the bases, okay.
Yeah. And this is , and this is...
Okay. So you're combining, you're combining...
A lot.
...a lot of different things. So why freckles?
Because, like, I thought putting more into it would make it more interesting.
Okay. You know what I think would make this really more interesting is the background. What's going on around the face?
Um...
Think about it. Think about it. What could we do? Where could this be?
In the sky?
I don't know. So what would represent the sky? What could you draw to represent the sky?
Clouds?
Try that. Maybe draw some clouds. I think, I think that's going to make your picture more interesting. Something like that.
Because, like, someone hit a home run.
Yeah, okay. And maybe some action lines around the ball. You know, like a little--
Yeah.
That looks really good. I like that. I like that one a lot.
A dog eating pizza.
Okay, Brittney. Yeah.
I don't know how to draw horses.
A horse?
Yeah.
Why do you need a horse?
Because I want to draw, like, a horse .
What were you going to do?
Like...
A horse...
A horse with a farm inside of it.
Inside of it. So what do you mean inside of it, though?
Like, in here, do, like, a farm, and cows, and...
Well, here's a suggestion, because I like your idea a lot. Why don't we... we can use this as a resource. Why don't we draw, I'll help you with this, just the back of the horse, okay? So we'll just work, we'll focus on, like, the neck and the back, and then the tail kind of coming down like this, okay? So you see where I'm going with this? Now what I'm thinking is why don't you draw your farm scene on the back? Like, almost that it's, like, kind of been placed on there, like a little miniature scene. Like, so maybe on here, you could draw the silo, the barn, and everything on there. Good? Eyes on me.
One, two, three.
Okay, guys, you're doing a really, really good job with your sketching and everything, and I don't, I want you to keep going. But we do need to stop for a minute. And based on the drawings that I'm seeing, I see some really good examples of surrealism, and you're showing me that you understand it. I bet you that if you saw an example of surrealism with some other styles of art, you could pick out the one that represents surrealism. Take a look up here on the board. I have three Tabasco sauce posters, okay? One, two, three, and four. Show me with your fingers, holding them up in the air, which one of these is an example of surrealism. Think about it for a minute. While you think about it, I'm going to wiggle my mouse so I can... okay. What's an example of, which one is a... Jess. Okay, everyone had four. That's good. Why? Why that one? Why'd you pick that one?
Because, like...
Nope, hold on. I was going to let Jessie answer first. What makes that one surreal? Think about it. Michael, go ahead.
The sides are, like, coming off the bottle.
Okay.
And the pepper's, like, putting out the sauce.
Okay, good. Anything else? Erin?
It's, like, out on this, like, island.
Yeah, definitely, definitely. Like, a lot of things make this one surreal. What does surreal mean again? Who remembers?
Me? It means, like, not, like, like, not real, but, like, in a different form.
Right. Beyond real. Beyond real. Okay? And this is a great example of that. Beyond reality. Okay? Here's what I need you to do now, okay? I have one more... Oh, I might have to re- ...I have one more slide that I want to show you up on the board, and if you open up your folders, you'll see this. You'll see this slide. And I printed it out for you. What I'm going to have you do right now, in the next couple minutes, I'm going to have you switch your drawing with someone at your table. You might have to switch three ways, or four ways, or one way. And I want you to assess the drawing that you get. Now, if you get one that has lots of drawings, just pick one of them, okay? Here's what I want you to do on the sheet. This is easy. First thing. What's the first thing that you notice about the drawing that you just received? Write it down. Maybe you noticed a big basketball. Maybe you notice... whatever it is, write it down. Then I want you to check these little circles. Whichever of these options that you see that that person used, I want you to check them out. Okay, Michael? And then I want you to write. This is the one that everyone stumbles with. They're like, "What does this mean?" All I'm saying is, what do you think that person meant in that drawing? What do you think the meaning is? If you don't know, put a question mark. All right? And then what suggestions do you have for that person? Maybe they, you know, if you did a background, it would look really nice. Or maybe, you know what? Maybe you've got to lose something. You've got way too much going on. I can't tell what it is. So this is not going to take you very long, but it's important because it shows that, shows me that you understand what you're looking at, and it also helps the person get a better drawing, which is going to be used for the painting. So I want you to switch drawings right now. Everyone switch. And I want you to use the sheet, and I want you to fill it out based on the new drawing that you're looking at, okay? So you're going to do this independently, and I'll come around and I'll check with you in a little bit. That's the first thing that you see. Write down the first thing that you see, all right? So, Lily, what's the first thing that you see in your, in this picture?
.
Okay. What do you think it is?
.
Okay. What do you think this is as a whole? Don't say anything, because I know it's yours. But this is good, because this is going to help you to make it better if you need to. So what's the first thing that you know? That you th-, what do you see? Just maybe you recognize it just as water. Anything else?
Maybe a blanket .
Okay. Write that down. Okay, that's a good start. What's the first thing that you saw? Almost everything is crooked. That's a good ob-, that's a really good observation. Because everything is crooked. Good. So what options do you think were used in this? Now, which one did you select?
Normal object acting abnormally.
That's right. It's clearly these objects are acting abnormally. That's good. That was a good, that was another good observation. So you just keep moving through. Did you write down your first reaction?
Mm-hmm.
Okay. And... okay. So normal objects acting abnormally.
