
 So how would you describe that?
Background Chatter)
 Can you find the exact  spot where that is in the text where you can find those? So you basically have found two character traits to describe to me, right? You guys have discovered that he can be what? What was one of them again?
 Jealous. Sad.
 Jealous. Or sad. So I want you to find that evidence. If you want to make those claims, any of those are great ideas. But now you have to dig a little bit deeper into the text and see if you can find this. Can you find examples and see? OK. Keep sharing. You're doing a great job!
 Toby wanted to play...
 Because Toby was kinda jealous because Bouncer was outside by himself. Didn't want to . Nobody didn't... and a little kid wanted to go outside the house. Well, I think he's thinking this himself. Because he was thinking about what the other .
 That's Toby.
 So, he's kinda jealous because he's talking to the other little dog, and every single time, he wants to play ball with him. But he doesn't want to .
 And the thing is, the lady said it, in the story, it made it sadder than it usually would be sad. That sometimes the stories make it seem so sad, so good that that can feel. So, here where it says, "Why does Andy need a new dog?" Oh, wait. "'Why does Andy need a new dog?' wondered Toby. "He already has me. "Toby sighed and laid down "Beside the dog. "Maybe Andy doesn't love me anymore." They had to make it so that what happened, and actually it's sad what happened. It's not that it's sad, but it's not so so sad, but they make it like sad.
 Toby wanted... 
 Toby wanted to play ball and he got a new dog and forgot, I was about to... 
 Well, he didn't really forget about Toby, because he still bought Toby his food. I know! Toby wanted to play ball, but when Andy came, he got a new dog. And then, for the rest of the day, Andy was playing with his new dog. And Toby felt left out. I say we put 'left out' somewhere.
 He's so sad, jealous, and left out.
 So, Toby wanted to play ball with Andy, but when Andy...
 How do you spell Andy?
 A-N-D-Y
 Andy.
 Andy.
 Where do you see?
 Oh, yeah.
 When Andy told him he wanted to play ball,
 Where are you?
 Andy.
 Andy.
 Toby wanted to play ball, but when Andy came, he had a new dog. And you spelled with a silent 
 I think with the Andy...
 Another dog?
 A new... Like this one.
 Another dog.
 No, it's not. Well, whatever. Who wants to...  
 Just write. Just write!
 I put 'Toby was jealous because of Bouncer.' Maybe we can put, because he wanted more attention.
 That's how my sister is. She wants more attention.
 We're not talking about your sister. We're talking about Toby.
 So, Toby was jealous...
 Toby was jealous because a dog's there.
 Because Toby was a dog and Bouncer just came along and he didn't like him. He's jealous.
 No. We have to write a reason why he's jealous.
 I know! Then we have to do part of the test. Part of the test!
 Did you guys agree on a character trait that he was at the beginning?
 Jealous.
 Jealous.
 Jealous? Do you have at least one example, and maybe two? Do you have an example, Joaquin?
 I'm going to put Toby wanted more attention, but Bouncer got more attention.
 Do you have an example  of why he wanted more attention?
 I have one.
 Can you find it, Oscar?
 When he was, like, maybe Bouncer doesn't love him anymore.
 I only said that. Can you find that? So when you write it, when you explain it, can you find that part and maybe quote it?
 There's another reason... When they came through the driveway, he got all . And then when he came back, he lay... 
 So that's like too many things.
 Toby was jealous, cuz
 Toby was jealous, cuz Bouncer got more attention, instead of Toby.
 No.
 Yeah.
 Oh, right here.
 In the middle.
 Toby, since nobody...
 What paragraph is that?
 Paragraph nine. He wondered if Andy had forgotten all about him.
 Do you know why he paid more attention to Bouncer? Because he's a little puppy. And little puppies need more attention than big puppies.
 Because little puppies don't know what to do.
 I know. And they're not even trained. They have to train them more.
 For like three months.
 Yes. That's why he needs more attention than Bouncer, yeah.
 Toby needed... Because Toby really knows how to...
 And he knows, that's an old dog. And you can see all the wrinkles.
 That's how the dogs are. Yeah, those dogs have wrinkles when they're big already. But they're still young.
 OK.
 Toby was jealous because Bouncer...
 What did you write?
 So. I have, 'In the beginning was Toby..." 
 When Andy had a puppy, he liked Bouncer more than Toby.
 Maybe.
 And in the beginning, Andy was showing the puppy opening. Opening the puppy, and showing it to Toby.
 Yes.
 That's how he was like nervous.
 Jealous.
 Yeah, jealous.
 And selfish.
 Yeah. That's what I put in the beginning. And then Toby... Remember the part when he got the little ball?
 Right
 Yeah, and he was being jealous.
 Yeah.
 ...Bouncer. Because he was a new one. And the old one was Toby.
 And the part when Andy closed the door in Toby's face, and he let him outside. Then he felt loner.
 I believe that, Toby was getting  Bouncer. Because they would stay together, and they slept the whole night together.
 So they were being friendly.
 Yeah, like starting to.
 Yeah.  Another thing that Bouncer was new. And another thing, Toby was old. So, Andy was used to Bouncer...
 And Bouncer and Toby... 
 And that's I think what Toby about. It's Bouncer. You know how the fence went to  Bouncer. They get a kinda middle-something.
 Yeah.
 That's what I think.
 When they started to get  , Toby showed Bouncer how to catch the ball, that's when they started to become friends.
