 And the climax is when  Andy he throw the rubber ball and told Bouncer to go and fetch it but he just sit there  and then yeah, Then Andy called Toby to go and show him how  to pitch the ball
 Okay
  
 Oh, almost part of the end is when the puppy that is Bouncer becomes crying and then Andy took the puppy to Toby
 Yeah, in the beginning I was getting like selfish. 
 May I interrupt for a second, so you guys it looks like you've developed the beginning pretty well and you found examples, right? Have you talked about the ending yet?, and how he was at the end? I see you're on the back page. How does Toby change at the end? Have you guys talked about that part yet? What's his character trait at the end of the story?
 We talked about the--
 Okay, so who was working on that part? Was somebody working on that part? Yeah, was there a trait that you picked for him, at the end?
 When... the little puppy Bouncer started crying and Andy took the little puppy Bouncer when Toby 
 How did Toby change then? How do we describe Toby then?
 Happy
 Happy?, yeah can you give an example of now that he's happy? He's happy why?
 Because he just  thinks anymore that 
 Ohhh. Can you come up with another reason, maybe together if you guys can look for another example as to why at the end of the story Toby is happy? Can you look and see if you can find one?
 I think that Toby,  in the ending is kind
 Is kind? Okay, can you come up with an example and share it with them in the scene? And then maybe you guys can come up with a consensus on one that you agree? Or you can write two different things, right? You don't all have to write the same thing. One of you can write he's kind and one of you can write he's happy as long as you have what?  as long as you have what?
 Your reason.
 Your reason, absolutely. So share that other example. Share that other example, too.
 I think I've got he's kind. Maybe because he's going to be kind to Bouncer because he's still like a little puppy and he doesn't know how to do stuff. I think.
 Yeah, in the end when he said   for me at the end he was getting kind of happy because... Andy told Bouncer to-- Andy told Toby to to get the yellow ball. You know the yellow ball.
 Yeah
 And Bouncer was  kind of tired and everything. because he's-- he's small and Toby, he catched it and they were playing, yeah, and they were getting happy and Toby in the end at that part he was used to liking Bouncer now.
 Mm-hm
 At the climax--
 At the climax, it was when   It was when Toby... When Andy told Toby to show Bouncer how to fetch the ball and then started fetching the ball   and then he started to play and Bouncer and Bouncer danced on his bed Bouncer tried
 Okay 
