On a regular basis. Have you ever thought about what that causes? I mean, what causes wind to blow in the first place? Whether it be a breeze. Whether it be a hurricane. Whether it be a tornado. Would you take a few minutes in your notebook, would you just draw a line write after what you wrote?  And I want you to give your best explanation of what the heck causes wind? Just do this on your own first. What could cause wind to blow? Take a few moments, just on your own.  Just like always guys, you don't have to be right here. I just want to know anything that you think might contribute to wind blowing. On a big scale, on a small scale. Anything that you've got that we can build on, anything that you put down. Alright, when you have this discussion in a few moments, share your ideas with each other. And then remember one person will be called from the group to share either what you put down, or what somebody else did. Talk to each other. See what everyone there is thinking. What ideas do we have? 
The air pressure and temperature changes and so it kind of like shocks, and it creates wind.
That's good. I think wind develops because clouds carries that air .
I don't really know much. 
Alright, folks. When we go, let's use, let's see who gets to share. Person two. We're going to go with person two. And let me switch this over here real quick so I can write down some of your ideas. Hold on. Alright, where'd my pen go? Okay, here we go. Person two. And we're going to start over here. Did you guys have any ideas why wind to blow? No, table seven. Sorry.
I don't know, but I said heat and cold air rising and falling. 'Cause I know how hang gliding gives us columns of air rising, heat rising, how you get in the air. I'm really not sure so I'm just thinking.
 Okay, so something about hot air rising and cool air falling.
 And like how they're .
 Say that again.
 And cold and hot air going over mountains. 
 Different land masses. Okay, very interesting. Now she had the toughest job. From now on every other person number two that goes you have to either come up with a different theory, a different idea, or you can agree or disagree with what Miah had to say. But you cannot say, "I don't know." Okay? So you gotta kinda run with what's been said. Keisha, we're going to go back to you first. What was your thought at your group?
 Well, we agree with Miah because basically we said the same thing that like the temperature of the air can have something to do with the wind.
 Okay. So I'm just going to add on here temperature.
 I was going to add pressure.
 Temperature, okay. That may be something different. Let's see what we can add to this. So you're agreeing with Miah that it may have something to do with the temperatures of the air. Yeah? Okay. Table three, you guys had a different kind of theory.
We agree with what she said except we also thought the pressure  how the wind blows and stuff.  Okay, so you guys talked mostly about pressure.
Yeah.
Could you pass that up to table two? So far we have two theories. One has been agreed to already. We have temperature, pressure.
Our group wasn't sure. But I agree with Kavya in how the pressure .
 You're thinking that it's something do with pressure. And, okay there's an agreement here with temperature as well. Pass that up to table one. Prescott, what kind of ideas did you guys have?
Well, we were talking and we kinda agree with A, or hot air rising. And pressure and air too, but I was thinking that currents or air currents carry the wind, or carry the air, faster.
 Okay, so let me add something about currents in here. 'Cause that's another kind of interesting thing. So are currents separate from these two? Or the same? Or added on to? Or they another thing all together?
Just added on, I guess.
 Okay, so we've got temperature of the air, we've got pressure of the air, and we've got something to do with currents. Could you pass that over to Conner? Conner, what is your thought?
 We kind of agreed that pressure of the air probably makes the wind. Like low pressure and high pressure.
 You know that's an interesting thing with the low pressure. What would cause air to be different pressures?
 I thought maybe the Earth's core and the gravity pulls down more in some places than others.
 Okay so, let's see. So you're agreeing with pressure, and you're kind of saying the pressures have something to do with gravity. Really interesting. Oops, hang on. Something to do with gravity causing different pressures. Pass that back to David. David, what did your conversation involve?
 Well, I thought the, I really didn't know exactly what makes the wind blow, but if I had to guess I'd say it's air masses meeting.
 Let's put that down. Okay. Hold on. And you threw out something that says air masses meeting. Alright, so when you talk about air masses, give us more of what you thought of what that is. What do you mean an air mass? And when they meet, how would that produce wind?
 Well, I know that when warm and moist air mass collides with a cool, dry air mass it forms a thunderstorm. I was thinking of one warm air mass meets another warm air mass, then when they collide it might produce wind. I don't know why, that's just my guess.
 No, no that's fine. So you're thinking when, you're saying when two different kinds of air masses meet it makes a thunderstorm. But maybe when two of the same meet it makes wind.
 Yeah.
 So let me put that on. So air masses meeting. So since we're talking only about wind right now, it's the same kind of air mass meeting. Alright. Would you pass that back to... Ah, Nathan we're going to have you go since Amber already went today. Back over to Nathan. Nathan what did your conversation revolve around back there?
 Well, we didn't really know, but based on what everyone said I agree with Miah, that it's the hot air rising and the cooler falling. But I also think that David's ideas are kind of interesting. I agree with A.
 You're agreeing with A, that it has something to do with the temperatures.
 Miah, what's your thought?
 I also thought what David said, 'cause I know how tornadoes are formed. But then I thought air masses are way too big. And I know almost all over the continent get a lot of wind. And so I think it might have something to do with air meeting together. I think that has to do with hot and cold air, kind of mashing.
 Okay so. You said with hot air rising and cool air falling. And then you said something about hot and cool air mashing. So when you talk about them mashing, are they like coming together and like swirling together? What do you mean by mashing?
 Mixing, not mashing.
 Mixing.
 Yeah, just kind of colliding together, but not swirling.
 Okay, so when you're saying hot air rising, cool air falling, you're saying that those two things are mixing, and it's by the mixing together that's what's causing the wind?
 Yes.
 Okay. Guys take a second. I want you to talk, we've got two more tables to go. But I want you to take a few moments, talk about the theories that have been presented so far and see if your opinions change so far. And then any questions that come up based on it. Talk to each other.  Alright guys, about ten seconds. Everybody time. And three, two, and one. Great ideas so far, guys. Let's go to the last... Any questions or comments come up in your discussion that you just had? Yes.
 Well, I think that if two of the same air masses meet it would just make a larger air mass. I mean if you're adding water with water, it's just making more water.
 Huh, so you're saying instead of wind being created, you would just have a bigger one.
 And I also think maybe it creates a thunderstorm if it's two of the different air masses, but maybe I think that would create wind like negative and positive magenets refusing to mix.
 You're bringing a couple of interesting things. You're saying when a warm air mass and a cold air mass meet, you're saying that those are kind of like magnets. Like opposite sides attract? Am I understanding what you're saying?
 Sorry, I mean both of the... I'm a little confused. Also, I would kind of agree with David now because if I'm thinking about magnets then two of the same magnets would refuse.
 Right. So would that analogy be a wind refusing? Or would coming together be more like the wind?
 I think that analogy would work with the two different temperatures of air mass, but there's, the magnets are the same, the air masses are...
 That's really interesting when you go and you apply to analogy like a magnet like that, which is really cool to bring in. Let me get the two other theories and we'll come back to that.
 How big are air masses?
 Well, let me come back to that. Let me get the two others and make sure we get some other theories in. Richard, what'd you guys end up talking about? Did it change as you saw these ideas?
 Yeah, so originally we were thinking that it might have something to do with gravity's movement. Actually, we thought it would probably be more something like a change in air pressure.
 You know, I'm going to, because I think that's an interesting theory, I'm going to put it up here anyway. You said it had something to do with gravity and the movement of the planet itself. So with gravity and movement of the Earth. Okay and then once you started throughout this round, you're thinking more it has to do with changing pressure? Okay, and you agree with what... Connor, was it you that was saying that it was the gravity that was causing the change in pressure?
 Yeah.
 So are you feeling like, are you taking your idea and kinda hooking it together? Or does something else cause a change in pressure?  Okay, alright. That's fine. Where's the mic? Can you pass it up? Here, I'll come get it. Abigail, last theory. Go.
 Well, at first we weren't sure. And we were talking about kind of atoms moving, like molecules and compounds moving away from each other and combining. But then we changed our opinions and think that like the pressure of air and the temperature of the air and the compounds that make up the air, moving and changing, make wind from the combination.
 So you're really mashing it all together. So your theory revolves around molecules moving away from each other. That was the first part. And then, did that end up causing pressures did you say?
 No, like and then the different types of air kinda combined I guess.
 So then molecules move away from each other. When you say different types of air?
 So like warm, hot and pressure.
 And those combine?
 
 Should I add that to this?
 I don't know.
 Tom. Yeah, Tom.
 I have a question. How would two air masses meet if they didn't have wind to bring them?
 Well, now that's an interesting question. Do air masses, now that's a really interesting question. Are air masses just these big masses of air? And then wind blows them around?
 Because then it wouldn't make the wind if it couldn't, if it couldn't come together, it couldn't make wind.
 Oh, now that's a really interesting thing. So is the wind? Oh, wow. Is wind a result of the air masses? Or do air masses need wind to move? Well, that's a really good question. Ben, you had a hand up.
 I just thought about it, and I didn't really want to share the question. I just was thinking in my head and I thought through the question.
 Alright. Does anybody have any other theories they'd like to suggest? Other than are there. Let's go through them real quick. So we had the theory that said it's hot air rising cool air falling, and somehow those two mixing that creates the wind. We had the theory that said it's the pressure of air and that pressure is kind of dictated by gravity. We had something with currents. So it's somehow the currents in the air, whatever those happen to be, that's what's causing the air to move as wind. There's air masses meeting. If it's the same, what Dave was saying. If the same air mass meeting, that's what causes the wind. It's gravity in the movement of the Earth, which Richard and this table suggested. Although they moved away from it, I think it's a valid theory to be suggested. And then it's molecules moving away from each other and then somehow combining with the other things. So would you take a moment, and if you had to commit to one of these as being why you thought wind would blow, take a moment and talk to each other and decide which one you think you'd commit to as far as which one you think it is. Talk to each other. 
I don't really know like what Matthew brought up, how they would move... So...  
 Alright guys, here we go. Would you grab the voter that is registered to you. And when you turn it on, you should have an A through F option. And would you choose one of those to be your theory please?
 Is this graded?
 No, it's not. No, we're just theorizing right now. So just go with the one that feels best to you.
 What's the question?
 It is which one of those theories do you think it is that is what makes wind blow?  Wait for a few more people to vote. Oh Mark, we gotta get to voting. Patrick, you in? Yep, you're in. Okay. Mark, what you want to vote on is which one of these theories you think is best. Votes are on your voter and fire away. And he's the last one to vote, as soon as he goes we'll see what way we as a class think. Oh, you got it? Okay, here we go. Let's see what you think. Alright, so B is our best theory so far. So right now as a group, let me save this. So right now as a group, we are thinking that it is pressure and... Let me ask you this. Let me get a quick hand vote for this, just out of curiosity. One of the things was that the pressure is caused by gravity. How many of you are going to add pressure would be caused by gravity then? Okay, most of the people voted that way look like they're going--
