Who's gonna do the skyscraper?
So we got to put size, color, and shape.
Size, color, and shape.
Ok, I'm gonna do a skyscraper
Beau, is that for the past or the present?
That's for the present.
Skyscraper?
 Present, the present.
 The present, ok.
 And the pyramid is for the past.
 Yeah
 And you'll do a pyramid for the past?
 I was gonna do a log cabin.
That's what I was gonna do.
 But we have to use different things because we don't got no logs.
 Well, actually, they still make log cabins now.
 We can use brown for the logs.
 Jonathon says they still make log cabins now.
 They do.
 Yeah, they do.
 We don't really make pyramids any more, do we?
 No.
 Yeah, but they could be hidden in Egypt.
 Yeah, but there is four lines. What we gonna do with the other two?
 What I want you to do is list three details.
 Color, size, and shape.
 So, what shape will your skyscraper probably be? 
 A rectangle! A rectangular prism.
 A rectangular prism? That's what Dillon said.
 Rectangle
 Rectangular Prism
 Okay.
Then you can talk about your pyramids. Ask them, they're your team.
 A square pyramid.
 Triangle
 Oh, he said a square pyramid.
 Yeah, let's do it.
 A triangle.
 You think it should be a triangular pyramid?
 Yeah, I'm with Dillon.
 Well talk about it. Which one do you want to do?
 I thought square pyramid was more like a real pyramid. You know, because it has four sides?
 It does have four.
 A pyramid only has four sides.
 Well a triangle has four, too.
 It does?
 One, two, three, four.
 That's a square, honey, because it has four. Well, if it has three sides, how many sides does it have?
 Three.
 Three. So, you have to decide.
 So, we could take a square and make it like a ...
 Dillon agrees a square pyramid,too. I love having y'all together.
 Let's do square pyramid and rectangular prism.
 Good deciding.
Alright.
What are you guys discussing, right now?
We're discussing what all we wanna do.
I like that. Okay.
 We're not sure what play we're doing?
 You're not sure what play you wanna do?
 Because everybody keeps picking everything.
 So, how are we gonna figure it out?
 But I agree with Randy.
 So, what do you guys agree on?
 I agree with my plans.
 He wants like an old time car, and I don't agree with that.
 But, we don't understand how you do an old time car.
 How do you do a play, or skit, about an old car? That's what you need to tell them.
The only time -- 
 Okay.
 Aaron said something about the classroom and that I was going to be the teacher. Or something like that.
 I wanna be assistant teacher.
 Randy likes that.
 And this is two people from the past and two people from the present.
 Hear what Jacob said.
 Jacob wants to be assistant teacher.
 You're the teacher, assistant teacher.
 So when will that be in the past or the present?
 Present!
 Haley could be a teacher from the present and then me and Randy can be from the past and then they can be from the present too. And then we'll come to where they are, then they'll have to show us what changed.
 Did y'all hear Aaron's idea? You can say that to them.
 I like Aaron's idea.
 Listen to what Aaron just said guys. He has an idea that you may want to do.
 Ian and Jacob and Haley are from the present. And me and Randy are from the past and we come. And, they show us all the stuff that has changed.
 I agree with Aaron. I agree with Aaron.
 I agree with Aaron.
 Or we could do, like, you two are teachers and like me and Aaron and Ian are like students. And then, them two teach us.
 Oh, that's an idea. You could do...
 But then how do we do the past?
 Well, but you could do the past and then, how, could you do a skit about the past, and a skit about the present?
 Yeah.
 They would be the same except one is the past and one is the present.
 To where like, no one had desks and then in the present we have desks.
 Oh. What do you think, Ian?
 I wanted to do people from the past and future they all meet together and do things from the past and the future.
 Well are we doing the future or the present?
 Present
 Well then people from present and past and they do things from the past and the present.
Okay. Well, decide. It sounds like you got some really good ideas.
 Why can't we just do one if they are doing stuff from the past and the present? And you choose your own people who live in the present.
 Well, Ian, if your working in a group should everybody do their own thing or should we work and kind of come up with the same idea?
 Yeah, you choose your own people but you do it in the present.
Sounds like y'all have to just keep on. You may just have to make a decision. Ok? You may just have to make a decision. Sounds like you are doing great, guys.
 How do you spell transfer trucks?
 Huh?
 How do you spell transfer trucks?
Transfer trucks? Let's sound it, let's tap it. What letters?
 T
 Trrr
 A- N- C- E- R, or something.
 Trr, like tree.
 T- R
You got it, Shannon. Did you hear Shannon? Let's tap it, Ta'jarius. Trr..Aaa...
 A
What letter is that? Nnnn
 N
Ssss
 C, K.
 S
 Ssss, Transssss
 S
 I got S.
 F
 F. How do you make "er' at the end of a word?
 E.R.
You got it. There you go, and you know trucks. So, what are y'all doing with transfer trucks?
 I don't know. He's the one who wanted to write it.
 Why was this on Noah's desk?
 Case has some names.
Yeah.
 Ok, but what... But why did y'all, um You're describing what each persons' job will be. And I have that, "Noah and Ta'jarius and Madison are gonna" do what?
 The waves.
 What kind of waves? What are y'all showing from the past and the present?
 I wanna do waves in the present.
 Do waves change from the past to the present? Do you mean like ocean waves? Have those changed over time?
 I'm doing transfer trucks.
 What's it suppose to be?
 A.
 I'm doing transfer trucks.
 How have those changed over time?
 Horses carried them, with like, umbrella's over them.
 Very cool. And we saw that kind of wagon on the smart board earlier. And you said that was like a truck.
 You could pull that up, back up there.
 I could pull it back up. Do you wanna see that again? Cash, do you wanna do the illustrations for the trucks over time? Shannon, what are you doing? What are your illustrations gonna be, showing change over time?
 She might do cars or something.
 Do you wanna do cars?
 You don't have to do cars.
 You don't want to?
 Lots of things have changed over time. 
 You can actually buy food and not hunt it.
 How do you spell Shannon?
That's one of the things you could draw the change from the, maybe you'll do washing machines?
 Yeah. Yeah, that works.
 Yeah. Cars change.
Do you wanna do transfer trucks?
 No. You're already doing them.
 Guys!
Do you wanna do washing machines, Madison? Draw a washing machine next to that?
 You wanna do washing machines?
 Can you hold that up so they can see it? because Shannon can't see it.
Where did ya wash your clothes at?
Turn it over like this, and you'd rub them against here.
Different, isn't it?
Yeah.
When I was little, my great- great- great- great- great- great- great- grandma, grandfather he had a washing board he took a picture of and then when I was big I was allowed to see it.
Very cool. There was a picture. Alright. It sounds like you've got some work to do guys. I love the idea of showing the illustrations of the trucks over time and the cars over time. I think we need to think about waves, though, because waves are a natural thing. People don't really build and change those, do we? No, so we need to think about something that has changed over time. And don't forget our books--
 Buildings! Buildings!
Buildings have definitely changed over time. Alright guys. Keep it up you are doing great. Alright, let's see what you guys are up to. Okay, what's going on over here?
 Well, we're thinking about--
 About Cassa coloring, Ann coloring, and me coloring and drawing, and her drawing.
 I love drawing.
 You love drawing.
 That's what I love. I love typing at home. I love all of it.
 Very cool. Alright, so what kind of things are you gonna show how are you gonna show past to present with your clothing?
We're gonna show the style, the color...
 Okay, can you tell me what you're gonna draw?
 We're gonna draw dresses.
 Oh, dresses.
 And shoes. Like, dresses and the shoes that they would wear.
 I can get my old dress, My mom's old dress she's got, I have it, and I can design it.
You can?
 Uh-huh. 
So are you all four going to show dresses from the past and present?
Yes.
Or are some of you gonna do past and some of you do present?
We're gonna do it all together.
I love that.
Them two are coloring, I'm coloring, and me and her are drawing.
Very nice.
You're drawing?
Yes, we're drawing, I'm coloring.
Very, very nice. Well, it looks like you guys are ready for your next page. Let me ask you this, how has clothing changed over time?
The color has definitely changed.
The colors have changed?
And the shoes.
 Ladies used to wear long dresses and now they wear not that long of dresses.
Oh, so they used to wear really long dresses and now...
 They have short dresses that come up to here.
 Yeah, and shoes they wear lace-up boots
 Laced-up boots
I think my mama has them, I won't be able to wear them, but I might be able to bring them.
Oh, that'd be cool if you bring those. It sounds like you have great ideas.
And they wore hats back then. 
'cause I'm thinking about my mom's dress... I mean, I can design it.
I am very, very pleased with how much you've accomplished together in your group, let me get you the next sheet.
 Okay.
 We all have our things done and we're going to get it.
And we all have each others' phone numbers.
Here's the next sheet. Let's look for a second. "Who will design the piece from the past?" and, "Who will design the piece from the present?" Now that doesn't mean it has to be separate. Right, you can take it home.
 Well, me and her...
Well, it sounded like we're all, okay?
 Yeah, we're all basically doing it.
Okay, "Why is this change important to people today?" and, "How could this continue to change in the future?" Hmmmm. There's some questions to think about.  So have you worked on this some more? You've decided to what you're gonna do? Skyscrapers and pyramids.
They're doing the pyramids, me and him is doing the skyscrapers.
Them two are doing the pyramids, we're doing the skyscrapers.
That was nice. Good going, coming up with that. Good job.
We're doing a square pyramid.
 You're doing a square pyramid?
Yeah.
That's easy, all you gotta do is start out as a square and draw triangles at the top.
So when I was with you before you said this is hard, we don't know what we're gonna do and all had different ideas, and as it turns out this is kind of easy. What made it easier?
 Working as a team!
Working as a team.
Dillon, would you mind sitting over here, sweetie, so that everybody can hear and see what you're doing?
 Yeah.
Kinda off by himself over there, huh, sweetheart. Alright, the last thing you need to fill out on your papers is "How has this changed over time?" Buildings, how have buildings changed over time?
Pyramids, pyramids been tooken down.
Did we ever build buildings out of gold?
No.
I got something. Pyramids have been tooken down to make more space in Eygpt, like more land.
 Okay. 
What about buildings in general? How is this building different from McWilliams?
 It's bigger!
It's bigger and has more space.
Which one is bigger?
 McWilliams!
 And it's newer.
It's newer, so how do you--
It's newer or it's smaller?
He says it's newer.
