Okay, alright. Okay, okay. So, that's his position. He's going to stick with it for a minute, but then he might have to go around, he might change his mind, alright? Okay. This group agreed with Fernando, okay? That it's because the Earth orbits closer to the sun in the summer than in the winter. Who would like to share they're thinking? I'll call on you if you don't . So, what do you think?
Well, I think it's because since the Earth like orbits around the sun, like in an oval, when it gets here it would be warmer because it's closer to the sun.
Okay.
And it's winter when it's away from the sun .
Okay. So, can you go and draw that on the board, what you mean? Because I heard you say that the Earth orbits around the sun in the shape of an oval. Raise your hand if you agree with that. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, that's the Earth and it's orbiting around the sun and he said that the shape of the path that it travels as it orbits is an oval, okay? Anybody else in this group has something to add to help him defend Fernando? Okay, I see. Can I read what you wrote?
Sure.
He said that the orbit is not a perfect circle. So, that's sort of what he's saying there. Is that right?
Yeah.
And how would it not being a perfect circle affect the difference in summer, winter temperature or heat?
Well, we know that the Earth, if it was a perfect circle the seasons wouldn't change.
Okay.
It would be the same.
Alright. Okay.
Depending where the Earth is--
Alright, okay. Anybody else have something they want to add in this group? Okay. Now anybody based on these two groups? Anybody want to move from their group to these two groups? Not yet. Okay, that's alright. Okay. Now let's go to Raul, okay. This group agrees with Raul and he says it's because the Earth's tilt changes the angle of the sunlight hitting the Earth. Defend yourselves.
So, I remember learning that the tilt of the axis is the reason for the seasons. But I read the question again, it says the Earth still changes and if it doesn't change it stays the same.
Okay. Let's read it again. Read it really simple.
It says it's because the Earth's tilt changes the angle of sunlight hitting Earth.
Okay. So, it says the Earth's tilt changes the angle of sunlight.
Yeah.
Does it say it changes the tilt of the Earth?
No.
Okay. So you going to stick with what you said or you want to change? Can you show me? If I give you something can you show me what you mean?
Alright.
Okay. So, I'm going to give you an apple and I want you to pretend it's the Earth, okay? And I'm going to stick this bamboo skewer through it, well it didn't go exactly right, but just pretend. So, what does this represent based on what you just said?
This is the axis of the Earth.
So, this is the axis and what does the axis do?
.
Okay. So, the Earth rotates around the axis which is what Ryan said, right? Okay. And be careful because I just poked myself. I want you to be careful . Okay. So, can you stand up and show me what you mean and let's have someone else in your group that agrees with you be the sun and stand kind of in the middle of the room right here, okay? Alright. So she's the sun, you're the Earth, show us what you mean, okay?
Okay. Well, the Earth orbits the sun--
Alright. What's the word you were just about to say though? Revolves? I think that might be okay, too. What do you guys think? Do you think revolve and orbit might be the same?
Yeah.
Okay, alright.
It doesn't matter.
Okay, so you're going to have to make the-- Go around the outside of the desk for your orbit, okay?
Well, it orbits the sun in a tilt.
Okay. Which one is tilt?
I forgot how many degrees.
Okay. Alright, okay. So keep going.
It orbits in an angle.
Alright. Hold it the way you think it's supposed to be. Okay.
I think it's this one. I'm pretty sure.
Alright. So she's tilting it, but now, and it's tilted. Right now it's away from the sun, is that right?
Yeah.
Okay. Now keep coming around . Of course does it make a little job to play that?
No.
But we're just imagining those who were in this room . Okay. Now stop there for a minute. Is your axis pointing where you want it to?
Yes.
Okay, alright. Keep going. You guys need to make space for her to come through on her orbit. Okay, alright. So, does that help some of you? How many people think that she's right? That the Earth tilts as it's going around its orbit? It's actually kind of spinning on its axis while it's going around, right? Is that right?
Yeah.
It's spinning the whole time, right? What does that spinning give us? What does that spinning give us?
Day and night.
The spinning gives us day and night, okay? Right? Okay. Because one side of the Earth is facing the sun it's what?
Day.
And the other side is in?
Night.
Okay, alright. Okay, alright. This group over here. You guys agree with--
Susan.
Susan, okay? And Susan said that she thinks it's because the northern hemisphere is closer to the sun in summer than in winter. So, what do you think?
So, like she said that its axis is tilting, but as it moves around the sun the northern and southern hemisphere are closer and farther away.
Okay.
But on this side the southern hemisphere is closer. 
Alright.
And when it comes over here, the northern hemisphere is closer in the sun and--
Alright. Anybody else in this big room have something to add?
Well, I agree with her, Natalie. Because as it is tilted, I believe, that, and so when it goes around the sun shines bright and as it's turning and so as it goes around it will change where the light is hitting it.
Okay. Can someone add to that or give us more detail?
I'm also pretty sure that like the state of Texas it's more closer towards the equator and so it doesn't have all of the seasons.
Okay. So, you think that places on the equator, right here, they don't have four seasons? Summer, fall, winter, right?
I think they do have seasons, they're just not as different as like --
Okay. So, there's not much, that difference in the heat from the sun and the winter versus the summer?
Yeah.
I think they're always getting the same amount depending on--
The same amount of what?
The same amount of sunlight and heat. Because they're getting it directly almost.
Okay. Alright.

Why do you think that? What makes you say that? So, you think the orbit is elliptical like this group, Fernando's group agreed. But it's not enough to change the difference in temperature.
I don't think heat really varies depending on, I mean it varies, but not in that small of a scale, depending on where it is. And so just that little, teeny movement, ellipse or something, will not change--
Okay, alright. Okay. I think we have another group over here. How about the Shakira agree-ers. Do you want to move now? Okay. Okay. Everybody if you want to move to a different table go for it now, okay? Nobody agreed with Warner, huh? Okay. So Eva's out, alright? People don't think that it gives off more heat, right, in the summer than the winter in Warner's group, right? So we're down to-- And Shakira's out, right? Alright. Who said to me that they didn't agree with any of them?
I changed my mind.
You changed your mind? Okay. Alright. So, here's what I want you to do now, okay? I want to do another little demonstration, okay? Would you be the sun? Okay. And would you be the Earth? Now here's what I want you to do for me. I want you to orbit around the sun. I want you to pick a spot. Like let's say that yellow bucket, okay? And as you're going around I want you to keep the axis pointed at that yellow bucket no matter where you are. Can you do that?
Yes.
Alright. Give it a try. Alright. Alright. Now stop for a second right there. Okay. He's still pointed at that yellow bucket, right? Keep going. Alright, stop right there. He's still pointed pretty much at the yellow bucket and you're tilted over a little bit, right? Like she said. Because we all kind of agree pretty much. These two groups agreed with that. What season is it right now? In the northern hemisphere? What season is it right now in the northern hemisphere?
Winter.
Winter. Why is it winter in the northern hemisphere?
Because it's farther away from the sun--
Okay. So, it's pointing away from the sun, right? Do you think it's because the northern hemisphere is farther away?
No, because it's tilted away.
Tilted away?
Yeah.
Okay. Alright, keep coming around here now. Keep pointing at the yellow bucket. It's a little bit hard to do, huh? Okay, stop right there. What season is it right now?
Would it be spring? Perhaps.
It would be spring in the northern hemisphere. What is it in the southern hemisphere?
Fall.
Okay. So it's the opposite, right? Okay, keep coming around here. Alright, keep pointing at the yellow bucket. Now what season is it in the northern hemisphere? What season is it in the northern hemisphere now? This group over here? Somebody in this group.  the table. What is it?
Summer.
Summer. Why is it summer in the northern hemisphere?
Because it's closer to the sun.
Closer to the sun?
And it's like, kind of like--
Are we like a few hundred or thousand miles away from the sun? A few hundred or a few thousand? Or like a few million?
Yeah. Okay. So, in the scope of that, it's hard to picture, do you think that the distance between this spot and this spot is that much compared to the sunlight coming over?
Yeah.
To make it that different? Okay. So, you think it's more the tilt.
Exactly.
Okay. I'm not sure in your past science classes, what is it about heat energy and light energy pointed on something that makes something warmer or colder? Anybody have an idea?
Depending on how direct it is because what I was thinking is like if this is the sun and, can I come up?
Come show us.
So, if my pencil's the heat and the light it would be coming from here and it would be coming and it would hit with him, this one more.
Right.
And this one will be direct.
Okay.
So, I think what he's saying is that both the northern and southern hemisphere are still getting sun, aren't they?
Yes.
Because we're so far away that the only, which side of the Earth is not getting sun right this minute?
This side.
When it's rotating it's night time. But during the day is it still pretty much light in the northern and southern hemisphere?
Yeah.
Yeah. So, what he's saying is that it's more direct to the hemisphere that's tilted, right, toward the sun. It's still getting sun and somebody over here said something about the equator, the places on the equator.
Those over there.
Who said that? Say that again.
Like states or, I'm not sure--
Any locations, right?
So like for Texas, as an example, I'm not sure if it's exactly on the equator, but I know it's really close to the equator.
Okay. Closer than we are.
Yeah. 
Okay.
I just read somewhere that it doesn't have all of the seasons.
Okay.
Yeah.
Somebody else said I think as much difference or variation.
Yeah.
Okay. So, this is summer in the northern hemisphere. Now we're going to cut across our orbit and save time, go back over to that side and what season was that again?
Winter.
What season was that again? What season is it now in the northern hemisphere? Winter, okay. So, which hemisphere is getting more direct sunlight now? The southern hemisphere. And what season is it now in the southern hemisphere?
Summer.
Summer, okay. Alright.
Because the heat's having to go around--
Okay. So, let's go back for a second. Raul's group said it's because the tilt doesn't change, but the tilt, as you're going around, changes the angle of the sunlight that's hitting the Earth, okay? That's Raul's group. You guys still agree with that?
Yeah.
Okay. And Susan's group said it's because the northern hemisphere is closer to the sun in the summer than it is in the winter. Anybody want to move groups now?
Wait. Does that mean more direct or--
Well--
Or literally closer?
Literally closer. Okay. Anybody want to move groups?  Okay. That's okay.  You don't have to change, alright? And this group  with Fernando that is because the Earth orbits closer to the sun in the summer than in the winter. Alright. I'm going to show you something and I'm going to see if it changes your mind, okay?
Do we get to eat the apples afterwards? 
Well, we'll see, okay? Alright. Okay. So, take a look up here. Alright. This is a simulation. What do I mean by a simulation? You can come back and sit down with your group. What do I mean by a simulation?
It's a photo or a video of what actually--
Right. It's not out in the universe looking back at our Earth. It's not from the space station or anything like that, okay? So take a look. Alright. And look at what's happening with the axis. It's a little bit hard to see on the screen. Okay. Did you notice how like what we tried to do, It stayed pointing the same direction, right? Let's do it one more time. Okay, alright. Okay. Now does this look kind of like what he drew on the board at the beginning? Does it look like an ellipse?
Yeah.
Or an oval?
Yeah.
Okay. So, I wish I had a glass, a clear glass.
We do right over there.
We have a clear glass?
That's alright. We can use this. Okay.
There is one over there.
We can use this. Okay. I want you, and you're looking at this, kind of from the side. Does it look like that? When you're looking at the rim of this cup or the rim of this glass from the, sort of the side does it look like an oval?
Yes.
Yeah.
Okay. Let me make sure you can see that. It does, doesn't it? When you're looking at it from that angle. But look at it straight down now. What does it look like?
A circle.
It looks like a perfect circle. Let's let a couple people experience that. Look at it from the side, now look at it straight down.
With this one you're almost looking, you're looking like right here.
Okay.
So, the glass it was right there--
I want you guys to try it too, okay? Alright. It might. But what I want you to think about here is this is sort of what you guys probably saw in your fifth grade science books, maybe even in your middle school science books. We'll have to take a look at the pictures in our books. You know, publishers, the people who print the books, they don't always do things the right way for us to work. And do you know that there are many, hundreds and thousands of adults, maybe millions of adults, who think that the orbit of the Earth looks like this because this is what they saw in their science books when they were kids growing up. But just like the glass, what happens? I'm going to do it again, but I'm going to flip it over. We're looking at it from up above. So, look what's happening now.
It's a circle.
Yeah. And did you know that the Earth's orbit, it is slightly an oval, but so slightly that it's really close to a perfect--
