And one more.
There's this one spider and he's around all day and then he comes and comes out.
 Oh, so it's waiting for him. You know, i'ts like a trap.
It covers itself in the flower and like it sets in the flower. It sits perfectly still in the flower and then when something lands on it, it attacks it and eats it.
Wonderful, so they're not really attracted to flowers, they're attracted to the insects in order to ambush them. Is that what you're telling me?
 Yes.
Okay, all right. So, and we talked about what is it that attracts these? Well, we see a lot of bugs, we see humming birds, and Jack mentioned this word, pollen. Do you know what pollen is? Do you know what pollen is?
 Ah...
 Do you know what pollen is? Are these things attracted to the pollen?
 Yes.
 Well, not really though.
 No, not really?
 Sometimes.
 Sometimes.
 I guess.
 Say that again please?
 It's an ingredient to make honey.
Pollen is an ingredient to make honey?
 Oh, nectar? Yeah.
So bees are attracted to flowers because of their... blank.
 Nectar. Go ahead, Jimmy.  How would you fill this in? The bees are attracted to flowers because of their... blank. Go ahead and write your answer in.
 Oh, okay.
I see some people writing pollen. You have color. They're definitely attracted to their color. We have nectar. And we have, we actually have all of them here. So, which one is it? Is it one of these or all of these?
 All of these.
 All of them.
All of them, tell me more. Tell me.
 I think it's pollen  and nectar because the nectar's in the pollen and the bees take the pollen and then use the pollen to make stuff, or honey out of it. So, it's kind of like taking it to its'...
So, we say that flowers attract insects, so we can connect these two ideas here. And we've talked about their color. The insects were attracted because of their color and they're also attracted because of their...
 Nectar.
Nectar, okay, let's put nectar right here. And they're also attracted because of their good smell?
 No.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 No?
 The nectar smells good, that's why butterflies go to them.
 Maybe look that up on Google. Why do you think flowers take all the trouble to make them smell good?
 So bees will go to them.
Why do people go to trouble to smell good?
 
Why not?
 Because, it would be gross.
Say that again.
Attention?
You want attention? You want to be attractive to other people too?
 Heck no.
Maybe you're too young for that. Yeah, when you get older, don't you want to attract other people?
 Sure.
Don't you want other people to find you pleasant?
 Yes.
You know, it's not a big thing, but are these fragrances signals to these insects? They're attractive right? And we'll talk about, I agree, they are useful, but that's not going to fit into my process just yet. But all of these things do attract the insects, right? But what is it that keeps the insects coming back? It's sort of like the color, the smell, you know, the, maybe the shape of the flower. All of these things are like advertisements to the insects. Why?
 For the nectar?
For the nectar. It's the nectar that's going to keep them coming back. All right, you see this bee here? What's all this yellow stuff on the bee?
 Pollen?
Pollen. Does the pollen attract the bee?
 No.
Does the bee want the pollen?
 No.
 Yes and no because the pollen helps all of the flowers to stay alive.
 The pollen is definitely important to the flower, right?
 Mm-hm? The bees just spread it around.
 The bees spread it around? How many people are aware that bees spread pollen? I see just about all your hands go up. So the insects are spreading, let's put that up here, they're going to spread the stuff called pollen. Right? Of course, the insects are really getting what?
 Nectar.
Yeah, so let's put they are taking or they obtain this nectar here, right? And nectar is another word for what?
 Food.
You all understand that nectar is their food?
 For the bees.
 For the bees? Just the bees?
 No, and hummingbirds.
And insects?
 Us.
And hummingbirds?
 Us, us, we have honey. Nectar is technically honey.
So, nectar is actually a food for us, because we steal it from the bees, right?
Yeah.
And we hide it from the bears, yes?
 Isn't there this one point where it has saliva, or something in the bottom of it, and it's in the shape of a picture, and all of these flies and everything are attracted from the sweet smell and everything, and they get into the water, they can't move and everything, they're paralyzed?
Okay, it's a trap.
 Yeah. 
 Like the venus fly trap.
Just like the venus fly trap.
 Yeah, I don't know what it's called.
Do venus fly traps have flowers?
 No, they have clear white.
 The mouth smells really sweet.
 That's because it catches flies.
Okay, we're going to talk about that in a minute. A lot of people, when I was reading your paragraphs, a lot of people told me that venus fly traps were one of the many kinds of plants that don't have flowers. All right, but let's look at this thing about pollen for a minute. Why is it that the flowers want these insects to keep stealing their nectar? What's going on here? They want them to spread the pollen, but why?
 To make more food?
 To make what?
 To make more food?
 You think it's to make more food. What do you think Olivia?
 To make like honey.
 The flowers want the bees to make honey?
 No, they like  need it to make more food.
 Pollen is an ingredient for nectar to make.
I understand that, but why does the flower go to all this trouble? Do flowers just like bees?
 No.
They say hey, you're a nice guy. We'll make you some...
 To keep them alive, I think?
To keep... the flowers are making the food to keep the bees alive?
 No.
  I don't know.
 That's okay, that's okay. What do you think, Joe?
 To fertilize other flowers?
Fertilize? What's fertilize? You mean to like give them like fertilizer on the ground? Or are you talking about a different kind of fertilizer?
Different.
You're calling it a different kind of fertilizer. Interesting. How many people understand that flowers are related to fertilization? How many people have heard that before? Hands up here, okay. So, if you want to ask what pollen is, you might want to ask what flowers do. All right and to answer that, I first of all, let's make sure, this dandelion, is this a flower or is this a weed?
 Flower.
 A weed.
Okay, thumbs up or thumbs down. Who says it's a weed? Okay? I see most of you thumbs up, a couple of you have sideways or down. Next, how about this one, how many people think it's a flower? Okay. How many people say it's a weed and a flower? Now I see some people who don't know. Well, let me ask you this. If you're to look at this, here's a pretty good picture of it, what makes you think it's a flower? Are there characteristics about this plant that make you think it's a flower?
 Yes.
 I don't think it's a flower...
That's not my question. Are there characteristics about this that make you think it's a flower?
 Yes.
What would those be?
The petals?
The petals? Excellent. Anything else?
 It's color?
It's colorful? Anything else?
 It has some nectar, maybe?
You think it has nectar?
 Maybe a little bit.
Have you ever seen insects hovering around dandelions?
Yes.
Who have seen... who have seen? Yeah, it's very common. Well, you can actually see bees on top of, on top of flowers. Here's a close up of the dandelion. What do you notice there?
 That looks a lot more ugly?
It looks ugly?
 Yeah.
Really?
 No it looks cool.
 It looks like water spouts goin' like...
It does look like water. What do you see on the side here?
 Pollen.
Does that look like pollen? What does pollen look like?
 Just tiny balls of... stuff.
Of stuff, yeah?
There those tiny little, like, they look like little leftover pieces just hanging off the side of the stem and it's with the bees and it sticks to the bees when they land on the flower, so it stays with them for a while. A ball and then it sticks to the bee, like if you want to see the bee, it's got all the yellow stuff on his leg?
 Yeah, we had the picture earlier, yeah.
 Yeah, I saw a bee on a flower in the summer and he had a bunch of that yellow stuff on his body?
 Cool.
 Actually, that's the pollen.
So the pollen, so it is picking up pollen. So, it sounds to me that, I guess what I want to convince you is that dandelions are flowers.
 They are?
Yeah, they're definitely flowers. Let me show you a picture of a dandelion. A little video, it's about one minute long, and let's go ahead and turn the lights off. And as you're watching it, just tell me what you observe happening in the video. Just go ahead and shout it out.
 The flower is opening, it's blossoming.
Okay, this is time lapse, so this is happening a lot faster than what it really normally, but you saw the flower open?
 It's dormant, dying now.
 And now it's closing up and it's dying.
 It's going dormant.
 It's dead. How many people think it's dead?
 No, it's still growing.
 It's dormant.
 It's growing into that white stuff.
 Say that again?
 It's turning into that thing in the ball.
 That's like, Marissa's making a prediction.
 It's gonna grow taller.
 No, it's going to break up.
 Do you see the insects all over it? Every now and then you can kind of see an insect on it.
 Oh, yeah.
 Yeah, there's one down at the root.
 At the very base of it.
 Yeah, something's happening.
 Something's happening.
 It got taller on the screen.
 Oh, the bottom petals are starting to die.
 
 What's that?
 It's starting to look like an onion.
 What's that thing on the top?
 It's going to blow away.
 It's going to grow into a dandelion.
 That was the flower, wasn't it?
 That's the thing you blow on.
 What's that?
 They're seeds, they're seeds!
 Yeah, you blow on them and it's really fun.
 It's reproducing.
 I'm hearing Steven say they're seeds. And Brandon, oh that thing disappeared. That whole top blew away.
 That's the stuff that you like to blow.
 How many people think these are seeds?
 I know they are.
 Ah, Andrew's thinking. So the flower turned into what?
 A seed.
 A reproducer.
 A big seed?
 No, they're all little seeds.
 No, they're all individual seeds.
 Are they blowing?
 Yes.
 Make a wish. Can I have the lights on please. So you have... 
 Like a month period.
 Yeah, that took a while. And I think you've seen dandelions, you may not have, you've probably seen the dandelions in two stages. Sometimes they're like gel flowers and later they turn into these little white, puffy, seed pods, right?
 You puff on them and they blow in the wind.
 Yeah, what does the wind do?
 It blows them away and it starts reproducing.
So each seed is like a little parachute?
 Yeah.
And it's dispersed to new lands?
 Yes.
All right, so if I were to say flowers, if I were to make a connection between flowers and seeds, what would you say about that? What will you say? What is the connection between flowers and seeds? McKenzie?
 They both reproduce.
 They're both  related to reproduction. Okay, uh-huh?
 One makes another?
Okay, so one flowers make seeds or flowers produce seeds, and there's that word that McKenzie was using, reproduce because seeds grow into...
 Flowers?
Flowers which then...
 Grow into seeds?
 Which then...
 Grow into more plants?
 What does that sound like?
 Life cycles!
Wonderful, wonderful, these are life cycles. What I'm going to ask you to do right now, is we're going to look at a seed very, very closely. I have some, you know what these are? Lima beans?
 Oh, I love lima beans.
You do, really?
 Yeah.
Oh, I don't like lima beans.
 I've never tried them.
 I like them in my favorite dish, chicken pot pie.
My dad loves lima beans, anyway. I have some. They have been soaking overnight in some water, and they're going to look a little bit different because they've been soaking under water. What I want you to do is, when you get one, I want you to open it up, like a book. Dig your thumbnails into the side of the seed and open it up very carefully, and I want you to look inside. That's what the magnifying glasses are for. I want you to be able to tell me what do you find inside the seed? Everyone clear? Go ahead, one person from each table come up and get a couple of seeds?
 How many?
Oh, you know what? Get maybe three of them in case one of them doesn't work. We have a spare. Three not unbroken, nice plump seeds. Take them to your seat. I just want you to look at them.
 They're bigger.
 They are bigger, aren't they? What else are they?
 They're sort of hard.
 They look like mandarin oranges.
  Why's that,  what makes you think they're like oranges?
 They're not hard anymore!
They're no what?
 They're not hard anymore.
They're not hard.
 We grew them last year.
What's that?
 We grew them last year.
Oh, you grew these last year. What do these turn into?
 Farmer's .
 They turn into plants?
 What are we supposed to be looking for?
 Well, you tell me. Don't break them open. Here's how I want you... Can I borrow this? Okay, I want you to go to the round part here, and you notice it has like a seed coat?
 Yeah.
Okay, you know kind of peel that back.
 Oh cool?
And then open it up like a book. Okay?
 I'm looking at the skin.
 Like this?
 Yeah, open it up like a book and look inside and see what you find. There's a little surprise there.
 What is this?
 It's a bug!
 It's located... yeah.
 Oh, gross.
 Mine's already broken so.
 Well, you have a good one right here. This is perfect.
 Oh I see it.
 Look at that. That's a really good one.
 I don't see it.
 Yeah, go ahead break it. Just like you did.
 I can't open it.
And oh, yours is right here. Yours kind of fell apart. Do you have another seed? Be there in a second.
 Okay.
Oh, there it is right there. Do you see that?
 I don't have one.
Look at it very carefully with the magnifiers. What do you have? Let me see what you got. Yeah, right there. There's actually part of it right here, broke in half and that's attached, and there's also a little bit here. Perfect, look at this, Patrick. That's what you want to look at.
 I can't open mine.
 See it, see it there? What do you see?
 I don't see it.
 Oh, there is a little bit of green there, isn't there?
 Yeah.
 Who else is having trouble?
 Me.
 I already opened mine.
 Yes you did.
 Are they supposed to smell bad?
 Yeah, they do kind of smell, don't they?
 Yeah, they smell.
Did you see that whole thing right on the tip? Look at that under the magnifying glass. Okay, okay look at my photograph up here. Here we go. This is kind of what you're looking at. You have these two like little half circles, little kidney shaped starchy figures, but what is this thing right here?
 It's a seed. It's starting to sprout.
What is it?
 It's a start of a lima bean.
I thought this whole thing right here.
 It's the start of a lima bean plant.
 This is like a plant sprouting out. Is that what you're trying to say Steven? What's that? Is there anything about this that makes you look like a plant or makes you think it might be a plant?
 Like that, like the big parts might be like, maybe like the soil or the stuff that needs to get bigger? Like when we add water to stuff it starts to get bigger?
 Well, did you notice there are two parts to it?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, it like goes down?
 There is, what's this right here?
 It's the sprout.
 Okay, I heard you say it looks like a stem. Anybody think it looks like anything else? Uh-huh? Go ahead, McKenzie? Why are these pointing here? Why are these pointed?
 It's kind of new.
 That makes sense.
 Looking to break through.
 Break through the...
 The soil.
And what breaks through the soil? What part of the plant breaks through the soil?
 The seed?
 The root?
Does it look like a root?
 Yeah.
How many people think it looks a little bit like a root? And this looks a little bit like a stem. What does this look like to you?
 A flower.
Let me see, it looks like this and there's another one that kind of looks like that. What does that look like to you?
 Leaves.
Leaves. What do leaves, okay. Do you ever see anybody draw pictures? Whats that?
 It looks like a carrot.
 It looks like a carrot,  doesn't it? Okay, look at those leaf like structures very carefully with your magnifier. I want you to look for a detail. You see a little characteristic.
 Oh I see it, I see it!
What do you see?
 I see like the veins of a leaf.
Wonderful.
 I don't. Oh yeah, I do.
Wonderful, you have little veins there on the leaf? Yeah, you can see.
