 I think we need the policeman, because he's the only one with a weapon. He's the only one with a weapon though.
 What if he goes crazy? He's the only one with a gun.
 Exactly, that's a good thing, though.
 Wait a sec, why is that a good thing?
 Are you saying he'd shoot us?
 I didn't say it's a good thing if someone could shoot us.
 No, I didn't say that. You said it's a good thing. Explain why you think it's a good thing.
 It's a good thing  because we could stock the food, Drake.
 OK, so he said two things.
 But he might  shoot us because we might be starving and he might start to shoot us. 
 We could take him,  he wouldn't shoot us.
 Where you at, Riley, it looks like you're sweating.
 I'm trying to think between you two.
 So you write down what you said you'd do, and you worry about everybody here. Who do you think is the most important? Eileen says the policeman, does everybody agree with that or not?
 Yeah.
 Why?
  Because  if someone gets hurt-- He can respond to medical stuff? yeah, they're First Responders. It's a good idea. Anybody else? Can you write down reasons why you should keep somebody? Would anybody that you know that works here already? That's good, he's too old, his life would be long. So, the old sir will be able to be productive to society. Think about that. Anything else about the male professor that you maybe thought about?
  --in support of communism. Do you want that in your society or not?
 No.
 Why not?
 Because-- 
 Okay, so freedoms  are important to you.
 Mr. Malls?
 Yes, ma'am?
 Send Kyle to the office for a minute, please?
 He's in Miss Crane's room, right now.
 What core are y'all in? Because I told Mr. Wayward where he was supposed to be, and he said he was with you.
 Uh, he, we're actually in 2nd, he's with Miss Crane.
 All right, thank you.
 OK, you can resume. Folks, we're about, I don't know,
 Hey, why should we keep the male professor?
 What's the issue you have?

 OK, now this is just a question, guys, If someone's not fit, does that mean they have no potential to be helpful to society?
 Nah, they could be really smart.
 OK, they could be really smart. 
 But she's nine--
 She's nine?  
 She's nine, so,  are you looking for right now or are you looking for the long run?
 We're talking  about the long run.
 The long run, so you got time. So just consider all aspects, just because maybe just because she has... does she have anything to offer? Let the group decide, it sounds like some people are really for and some maybe are against it. 
 If you want a male farmer, say aye.
 Aye.
 If you want the male professional, say aye.
 Aye. 
 If you want the female  scientist, say aye.
 Aye.  If you want the  male preacher, say aye.  Aye.
 Definitely female nurse.
 We already have a nurse.
 We already have a nurse!
 Who cares?
 I do.
 In case he dies-- 
 But the female med student's only in second year, she hasn't even been to the hospital.
 It might go for four years.
 Exactly.
 We got the scientist and the nurse to help her.
 Plus she'd be off breeding.
 Excuse me?
 No offence. 
 You know we only got like thirty minutes.
 We only have fifteen, so...
 Hey, we're about 5 or 10 more minutes, and then I'm gonna stop you in groups and you'll listen. If you have not managed to already make your decisions, here's the key point, here's the key point... Still got a group talking, you need to listen. About five or ten more minutes, you need to come down to your five, you need to have the reasons why you chose the five, and we're gonna share those, and reasons why you did not choose the five you didn't choose. Keep in mind, Edna, keep in mind that five are going with you to start this new civilization that's gonna hopefully flourish, and I hope you're all taking people with, uh, that you know will make it. But there's also, you gotta keep in mind, there's five people you're leaving behind, that most likely is not gonna make it. But you, you're concentrating on who you need to start this new productive society, OK? OK, start closing up in the next five or ten minutes, about who you're choosing, who you're not choosing. Those radiation levels are getting high, very high. Over here especially.
 I know, really!
 I kinda changed  my mind about that. Because she's cute. 
 You can't change times and down.
 I'm agreeing with that.
 Say aye again,  if you want-- .
 Aye.
 Finally...
 They wanna take  cripple girl and I'm saying...
 He's still overruled.
 I posed this question  just a minute ago. So, this is, so we can look at mass... So we can look at it two ways, one you're looking at: "She can't do anything, she's gonna be hard to keep, because someone will have to do it, second way of looking at it, she... And she doesn't have her doctor. Uh, is that true? Once she had a doctor. 
 OK, and then what else? 
 Have you ever heard anything about...
 Yup. 
 So what if this person could be maybe a scientist or a...
 It didn't say that.
 But again you're not saying that she is... 
 ...you can combine that. OK, continue on. You need to start choosing, maybe 3 or 4 of your 5. And why you're gonna take or why you're not gonna take 'em. 
 OK, male professor, too old. 
 He's too old!

 Five minutes! I'm giving you five minutes! Start making decisions. 
 But why do we need a  policeman if we got a lot of money? 
 Hey, I wanna share some of the tips that some of you were talking about... And one person said, "well, she has the potential to become "any of these things here, she has "the potential to be any of those," so it might something to consider. 
 We need extra little kids, and she won't help us with no extra little kids. 
 Somebody's ready to go, just about, so you need to make sure you get your five choices. 
