That they need to make some sort of a change.
 Like the turning point?
Like there's a turning point. There's some kind of change that needs to occur. Do you guys think that most people take that opportunity and then change?
 No.
I think some no. In Fahrenheit 451, how some people were assuming that Mildred already knew, but she just didn't want to not like accept it  but not be part of it. She didn't want to be part of the change, she just wanted to be in tune with society.
She never gave herself an opportunity to have any kind of turning point. 
Even when she had the opportunity, she didn't.
Right.
 I think emotion plays a big role in that, too, because Faber let fear get in the way of him doing something, so he basically created that little earpiece thing, so that somebody else could do it for him, and he could watch over somebody that's actually doing it.
 Another person who's carrying the shoes to go through the turning point is Beatty, because although he had all of the knowledge, much more knowledge than Montag had about society and everything, he chose not to go against it because he believed that if he does it, then what's the point, if he's not going to gain anything out of it.
 Do you think also because he has all that knowledge, he wants to use it to have power? Since he knows all that, he wants to manipulate, keep them in control, keep them in check and stuff.
 No, I don't think it's that he wants power, I mean, it's that he's seen the bad side of things, and, like all humans, you don't like to go through something when it has lots of negativity in it. With education, he knows it's good because it helps you think outside of the box, and everything, but it's bad also because then you have two countering opinions on everything. Then you realize that there's genocides, there's slavery, there's wars, there's too much negativity.
 The government also doesn't want that because it probably gives them ideas of where to go. The more information they know, the more possible ways they can use it against them.
 I like what you said about the government doing that kind of stuff, because I guess they see it as a way of knowledge makes people--
 Vulnerable.
 Vulnerable. It's like if the people were the government's subordinates, so it's not the government's people who they're protecting, it's pretty much who they're in control of.
 I kind of want to share my opinion on the turning point thing, like in Harrison, and bridge around again. You get to see the emotion, or what George has to go through, but yet he doesn't do anything about it; Harrison does. It says right here, "His thoughts fled and panicked like bandits from a burglar alarm." It's showing you what he has to go through for his thoughts to be taken out of his head, or whatever but Harrison is the one doing the actions. He's the one that wants to go against the government, and George isn't.
 So, do you think their relationship and the correlation of George and Harrison is just like Montag and Faber's, where Faber doesn't want to do anything, because he didn't want to go to jail in the South? George doesn't want to go to jail because he doesn't want to lighten his own way because he would get, what was it, seven years?
 Yeah.
For each sled that he takes out. And Harrison is actually doing stuff. And Montag isn't doing stuff. So, do you think that you need that person, the one behind the scenes doing the stuff, and then a person that's actually doing it, or do you just mean people that actually already in action to a bill?
I think that you need people who are  I think that you need people who are  but I think that it's easier to  so I think that way is better. So you don't get in trouble  
 I think the people that have , the people in the front lines are always useful. They are easier to camoflauge  They are the ones with the real plans. These people in the front don't usually come up with them.
Yeah, but you have the plans and then you don't do it. but what does it matter that you have the plan and you don't know how to use it?
Well, not every body's that brave. 
That's why you need to...
 I think people need the support system, like Faber was Montag's support system.
He had a plan   
 Don't let him tell you he sees, walk away, walk away. 
 I guess, here's my question. So, in looking at our essay question for our final exam tomorrow, I want you to think... our question is, to what extent should citizens comply with unfair laws, right, created by government? I know I'm asking you to respond with to what extent, should citizens comply with these unfair laws? But we're also talking about so who should act, right? So who should be the one to act out, to lead, to go against the government? Because we're looking at characters who possess the capacity to act out. We're looking at people who have knowledge, who have strength, who are talented. But they're not leaders. And we're also looking at people who may not have those qualities, they have the potential to have those qualities, but need a little bit of encouragement and a little bit of a push. So when we say to what extent should citizens comply, do you guys think that citizens applies to everybody? Or is it limited to a group of people who are willing to make those sacrifices? Do you even think that's fair that it's a small group of people who make the sacrifice for the whole? I want you to think about any types of current or historical events where we've seen a group of people, whether it is a whole group, or just a couple of people who take charge, who lead and impact change. Are there any examples that you can connect to that? Do you think that that's even fair for everyone to benefit from the sacrifice of a small group of people?
 I see it as a way... every time there's a change, or a law, or something that affects a certain group of people, it's never really based on the whole group of people. Like all citizens. It's more of a target, and when a certain group is attacked or targeted, it makes others not really... I don't want to say care, but it doesn't really matter to them because they're not the ones that are experiencing the negativity of that. Or, yeah... it's just basically it's that group of people who have to, I guess, express their ideas and it may be scary for some people to go along with it and actually carry out what they think is right, but I think it's necessary for a unit. You probably need that one person who spreads the message, and then I think it is very important for other groups of people to go along with it because you never know when it's going to be your turn.
 So, here's my question because on your AP exam, on your final exam, for your argumentative essays, you have to be able to generate your own examples. So, I know Omar you've got a very clear idea, but does any body have a historical reference or a current event that we can tie that idea to something specific, and that's what you can discuss. Let's see if we have any ideas here about historical or current events that we could really provide as really concrete examples that we could look at because you want to get specific. You want to say, "hey, let's look at this specific example, where this actually happened." Any thoughts on that?
 Anything with slavery, with Frederick Douglass and the abolitionists in the north. They really felt the need that slavery was needing to be abolished and I guess that's where civil disobedience comes from, is the abolishment of slavery. Well, the need to abolish slavery. That it really wasn't really blacks or Africans, or whatever you called them back then. Wanting to be set free was people that weren't even affected by slavery that wanted them to be set free. And I think that's more important, and more appeals to your emotion because these people have no tie to slavery. They're not benefiting, they're not getting negative from it, so it's like you really think that it's wrong when someone else is not affected by the situation. It's saying that it's wrong.
 I want to connect to what you just said about to the idea of the mental slavery that's going on right now because I guess maybe not a lot of you are aware, but there's... I don't know if you guys heard something about the green eye? That recently... that's in the past. And I think that's very important because that affects me in a way because many people wanna go to college but I guess the idea of going to college and getting your degree, but then not excelling in what you are supposed to be excelling in. That kind of stops them and discourages them from... to keep going. So I guess that idea is... I don't know, it's kind of opressive because they're trying to maintain you in that little... it's just marginalizing you and yeah, I think it needs more support.
 So I want you to think about that example because there were a lot of protests, right? People were really protesting that, and there were a lot of these laws that people were standing against, right? And when we look at the questions, to what extent should we comply with unfair laws? If that is an unfair piece of legislation, to what extent do you then choose to protest? How far would you be willing to take it? Because we talked about this, this line between pushing your protest and your form of rebellion. Like look at Harrison, right? Dancing on stage as a ballerina. Doesn't really seem all that tough, right? But, for him, he was taking a big stance, right? Not about borderline violence, right? I want you to look at what Thoreau did. He didn't pay his taxes. He wanted to go to jail. He was happy there. He was like, "don't bail me out." Had nothing to do with violence, right? You hear a lot of people protesting, you know. Issues regarding the DREAM Act, but to what extent should they comply with the laws? Do you use violence? Do you even take it there? Do you use more creative forms of protesting? I want you to consider how far do you take it? How far do you show your protest? What is acceptable, and where do you draw the line?  Good reaction, lots of reaction. Let's hear from people we haven't heard from. I want you to go back and think about your goals that you set. I'm hoping those of you that are a little bit quieter in our discussions, chose goals that might push you to speak up. So let's hear from a few folks that we haven't heard from yet and share the air time. Any volunteer? Jesus, what do you think?
 Like Omar said, like the DREAM Act, has an ill affect on a lot of people. It doesn't really affect me, but I know a lot of friends that it is affecting. It's not really fair that it really didn't pass, but when we want to try to push something, like Julian said for slavery, it didn't really take... it took such a long time for them to really get the rights. There was the abolishment, there was Frederick Douglass during that time. But as time went, then came Martin Luther King, who was the center person who started the really big move for African Americans to realize their own rights. He lead the protests, marches... if you gather groups of people over time... if you speak up with your voice people will hear. Even people like African Americans, they came and rallied to listen to the idea that everyone being equal. There should be rights and everyone... no matter what color you are. So for Latinos like us, for the , it's such a short time because we just started also trying to pass our rights, but the dream that was once dead, but even though it didn't pass, people should not be put down, like, "Aw, it didn't pass." So they'll just forget you got to stand back right up and get more people and to continue to pass on for your rights, cause if we stay together, anything can happen... If we stay together as one, something will happen.
 I am hearing two things and we'll get back to Stephanie really quickly I think she's just itching to get in this conversation. I'm hearing two things. One, that it takes a collective group effort. It's not just one person, but it needs to be many people involved. As many people involved And I'm also hearing that it takes a lot of time. So those are a couple of factors that play in to going against unfair laws.
 That's kind of like right now, that it's kind of more modern because .
 You think so?
 no, no, no.
 I want you take this idea that Omar brought, this idea of mental slavery of oppression, of our intellect, our intelligence. Is that something that you think is just recent? Is that something that's been happening over time? I want you to think about that and see... we might isolate one part of the problem, but I want you to think on a broader scale. Is it really just one isolated event, or is this one in a stream of events? Stephanie, you had something that you were...
 Yeah, all of them were in the governement, and I was thinking of the movie, "Milk". How they have to fight for the rights for equality for homosexuals and what he does is he runs for office in California, and to be heard, which is kind of like civil disobedience in a way. But he does it in a bigger way for them to be heard. One part in the movie that I'll always remember, is when a guy in a wheelchair calls him to tell him that he's gay and all of that. But he just hangs up, but yet he does it for him, most likely because he wants people like that to be heard. And that's kind of what my connection is.
 I think another historical event besides the slavery and what  you just said is the nine eleven. I think it's the short-term one. It took actually really quick...  the terrorists going up there. It just took one simple idea to tell them, "Oh, let's just go..."
