 Welcome to our kindergarten classroom. The library is the heart of our room where books are labeled and sorted by genre and reading level to facilitate student self-selection. This is also where we display author studies, current student work and student-made literacy charts. This is where we have our writing center, more level texts, classroom volunteer supplies and a lending library. Math work is on display and student portfolios are organized and easily accessible. We have a few tables to facilitate guided instruction and small group learning. Our schedule and calendar are housed in this part of the room and we have a message board which is portable and used for modeled and interactive reading and writing. Our learning center's chart organizes student movement around the classroom and our word wall houses high frequency words and rich tier-2 vocabulary words. "But on the morning of the fair, the little calf was nowhere to be found. She had wandered down to Mud Pond by the cornfield to cool off. When she waded into the muddy water, her feet sank. With every step, she sank deeper and deeper and deeper. The little calf was stuck in Mud Pond." "'Get the hands! Get the helpers!' the farmer shouted when he saw her. All the farm hands came running with their ropes, but the more they tugged, the more stuck the calf got. 'Get the big yellow tractor!' the farmer shouted, 'He can save her. ' But the big tractor just scared the little calf. She sank deeper and deeper. And nearby farmers began to gather around." Readers, I think we've come to our problem in the story. I think the characters, Otis and the calf, have a big problem. Talk to your partner and see if you can figure out what the problem is. [background chatter] Readers, I heard a lot of good ideas. I heard a lot of good discussion. Miami, what's the problem?
 [Inaudible]
 Who sank into the mud? The baby cow. It's called a calf. Oh my goodness, readers. I heard everybody's discussions. You guys were all talking about the big problem--the calf is stuck in the mud. Help me write that in the problem box. Here we go.
 [Together] The calf is stuck in the mud.
 That's our problem. The calf is stuck in the mud. Let's see what effect this problem is having on the characters in the story. Let's see how they're feeling now. It tells me where to stop to ask you guys questions. "'Call Fire Chief Douglas and the fire truck!' the farmer shouted. 'They can save our little calf. ' But the sight of the big red fire truck startled the little calf into the mud even deeper. The farmer was fit to be tied. If the farm hands and the big tractor and even Fire Chief Douglas and his fire truck couldn't save the little calf, who could?" Oh my goodness. Look at everybody. What effect is this problem having on the calf and the farmer and the community? How is everybody feeling? I like Amir's raised hand. How is everybody feeling, Amir?
 They feel sad.
 Sad. I heard you say another good word that started with W...
 Worried.
 Worried. They're sad. They're worried. How else are they feeling? Sad, worried.
 Scared.
 Scared. Scary--what if they can't get her out?
 Scary.
 [inaudible] ...call a lot of people.
 Yeah. They're in panic mode. They're trying to call everyone. They're panicked. Frightened.
 Afraid.
 Afraid.
 Worried.
 Worried. So, so worried. So, so worried.
 They might call the other tractor.
 The big tractor can't get her out. He already tried. Wait, Kanye, were you talking about the other tractor?
 The red one.
 Oh, they might call Otis. Maybe Otis could help. That might be a good solution to the problem. Let's see what they do. Let's find out. "Suddenly the little calf's ears perked up. Over the hum of the growling crowd, there came a faint sound in the distance. A soft, rhythmic purr, 'Put, put, puttity, chuck. Put, Put, Puttity, chuck. Put, Put, Puttity, chuck. ' The crowd turned and looked." You hear the word chuck. Who is coming?
 Otis.
 Otis. Good. Let's see what happens. "The sound became louder. 'Put, put, puttity, chuck. Put, put, puttity, chuck.'" Let's all make Otis' sound.
 [Together] "Put, put, puttity, chuck. Put, put, put, chuck. Put, put, puttity, chuck."
 "All at once, Otis put-puffed from around the barn. He turned and he headed straight for Mud Pond." "Otis put-puffed down the rolling hill and pulled right up next to the muddy waters' edge. The calf heard her friend's puttering purr and bawled. It was almost like, Hello!” She's crying out to Otis. Yeah. She bawled. "To the sound of his gentle chuck and to the amazement of all the people in the crowd, Otis slowly began to circle the pond. He circled and he circled and the little calf turned and turned, never taking her eye off her friend." It looks like they might be solving their problem. "With each ring Otis made around Mud Pond, the muddy grip loosened until the calf was able to stumble out of the pond on her own. The two friends had found each other again." It looks like we found a solution to our problem. Talk to your partner about how they found a solution. How did they solve their problem? [background chatter]
 I heard a lot of good discussion. How did they solve their problem? You guys, I heard everybody talking about it. So, Jabrielle, how did they solve their problem? What was the solution? Who came and got her out of the mud? I heard you tell Isaiah.
 Otis.
 Otis. Ramaya, how did Otis get her out of the mud just like Jabrielle said?
 He rided around the mud...
 Oh, I don't know if you can hear Ramaya. She said Otis rode around Mud Pond and got the calf out of the mud. Help me write that.
 [Together] Otis rode around Mud Pond.
 It was called Mud Pond. Otis rode around Mud Pond.
 [Together] And he got the calf out of the mud.
 That's the solution. Now how is everybody feeling? What effect is this having? How do they feel now that they have their problem solved? Nijyah?
 Excited.
 Excited. Miami? Happy? Sherod.
 Glad.
 Glad. Edward? Yeah. They're feeling great. They're reunited. Their family is back together. Zion? How do you feel when you solve your problem? They are a little exhausted, aren't they? That was a lot of work. Ismail? They're feeling okay. They're feeling relieved. Relieved. Wow. Great job. Let's see how the story ends. Readers, you are really doing a great job paying attention to the problem and the solution of the story. It's really helping us comprehend the story better. We're understanding it really well. "Otis led the calf right down the dusty road toward the village and everyone threw flowers as they went, following them into town. It looked like a happy parade. No one needed a fancy-- No one needed a fancy blue ribbon to tell them that the calf was a special calf." "Otis was a special tractor. And the two of them were special friends. From that day on, the farmer discovered that with Otis' puttering purr beside the chicken coop, his chickens laid more eggs. At milking time, with Otis' gentle chuck nearby, his cow produced more milk. And on occasion, Otis even got to join the farmer and the big yellow tractor out in the fields. But often, at the end of the day, Otis would just sit with his friend under the apple tree and watch the farmer he loved."
