 Like the chocolate one with the strawberries that we looked at, that is going to serve approximately 24 people. So if you multiple that by two that's approximately $48 that you should charge if you're going to charge for your cakes. Now it's going to depend on did you really put that much time, energy and effort into it and do you feel like you really need to charge that? That's going to have a little bit of basis to how much you are going to charge, but that will kind of give you an idea what to charge for your cakes. Think about it too, serving sizes for cakes are typically two inches square. They're small, so when you are thinking, "But that's a little cake" well, serving size is tiny. It's not that you are going to serve them a whole meal out of cake. It's just for them to get a taste. Sculpted cakes like the catfish cake that we looked at, $100 plus. When I looked these up specifically for something as big as that catfish cake because it was a pretty good size catfish cake. We tried to make it, as realistic as possible and it was about this tall. So probably somewhere at $150, $200 level had we bought that at a bakery. The wedding cake, like Jessie's wedding cake that we've seen, somewhere in the neighborhood of $600 because it was a seven tiered masterpiece as well. Who has a question? Come on somebody has got a question.
 I wanna make a 3D cake.
 Okay, when do you wanna make one?
 I don't know.
 They're fun! So if you were going to make a 3D cake, what would you make?
 Catfish!
 Okay! Britney's making a catfish! Okay, Erica's making a dinosaur. Oh, my favorite. Piggies, butterflies, what else? What would you like to try? Penguin, duck, basketball, panda bear would be cute.
 A tire.
 Brandi, I wanna see your tire cake when you get that done. A monkey would be fun. [Background Chatter]
 That would be really cute.
 So you guys are starting to think 3D. We need to be thinking about your roses, too. Because we gotta work on those roses and get that technique down. Let's go over to our table, and I'll show you about making those roses. Okay, so when we get our snow day tomorrow I expect you to go home and practice, practice, practice, practice, practice. If it's snow we probably will get out. Watch Facebook, Brandi. Or listen to the news. That's how we'll find out. I always post it to my Facebook whenever they tell us. You guys already know about fixing your pastry bags, and this one is already fixed and it's all ready to go. You know me, I like wrapping it up. One of my just little tricks I like to use for this, if it starts getting sticky on the outside-- Which actually I know you have struggled with this-- these are not my friends. These are my friends. That's my first tip. My second tip is if you're going to use a plastic bag, take a paper towel and just turn it into your handle. And the other thing is, don't fill your bag so full. It really only needs to be filled to about halfway, maybe a little bit more than halfway, okay? Then what you'll do is you'll start rolling it down. As you're rolling it down, typically what I do first is I fold it in kind of at a triangle. Then I start rolling it down. The reason for that is so when I start putting pressure on it's got both those folds and then another fold to keep it from escaping. Other people like to do the toothpaste thing and twist. It's totally up to you how you want to do that. Either one is totally acceptable. Just feel what works best for you, okay? Then I make my little handle out of my paper towel. Remember on the tips. You will notice on the tips, especially the Wilton tips, has a number. That number is representative of how big the hole is. The larger the number the larger the hole. That works on the writing tips. Someone tell me what number is on that one. Okay, tell me what number is on that one, Erica. It's on the outside. Okay, yours is a number 12.
 Five.
 You've got a number five.
 It says a 230.
 Okay a 230.
 One.
 Okay, and why. A one what? A one M, that means one monster. No, I don't know what the M stands for. What is the difference though between this tip and this tip? They're pretty much the same thing. [Background Chatter]
 What would you use this one for?
 For big cakes.
 Or for?
 Wait, don't! I got this!
 You've got it, okay come on, Ashley. What would you use it for?
 [together] Borders? Borders!
 Yes, great answer! Absolutely. I'm telling you by the time you have finished your masterpiece and you're ready to do the borders, get the big ones cause you're ready to be done with it. If you pick one of these little teeny tiny ones, by that time you're sick of working with frosting and you're ready to do something else. But this one's just a number 16. See how tiny that is? Okay, rose tips. The bigger the number the bigger the holes. Also on your rose tip, make sure that the large opening end is going down. If this is awkward for you, all you have to do to adjust your tip, loosen it and then twist it around, and then tighten your tip. You don't want to tighten it so much that it's gonna take a pair of pliers to get it loose, okay? Let's see if I can get this back in business. Okay, you've got your rose nails. You're just going to put a little squirt of frosting, and it doesn't have to be very big... and I'm making a big mess now. Hold it down. Lay it straight down on your waxed paper and now you've got your basis for your rose. This is what we're gonna build the roses on. We have to make a pyramid of frosting to start out with. Remember that on the Power Point? The first one I'm gonna do, is I'm gonna rotate this counter-clockwise and make my little pyramid. See that little circle in the middle? That's going to be the very inside of the rosebud. Actually you could pull these off after you let them set up. Stick them on a plate or on a cookie sheet, stick them in the freezer, and you could have lots of little rosebuds to set on your cake. Just add your little leaves add your little vines and make you a really pretty little rosebush out of that. If you want it a little bit bigger, you just squeeze and rotate all at the same time. It's about pressure and release. So, if you wanted a little rose you would pull it off right about now. If you want a little bit bigger, we're gonna build it up. My frosting is getting warm, but that's okay. There's a little bit bigger one. It's starting to flop over on me because it's getting really warm in here. The more petals you add to the outside, the bigger your rose is going to be. Did you see that? It just about flew onto the floor.
 Could you tell me what this would be used for?
 Yes! That one is actually to decorate cupcakes. So if we had a whole bunch of cupcakes this is so you can do some really delicate work inside the very delicate areas. Like if you have them all lined up and you're trying to do them really fast, you can just do that. Usually what they will do that for is you know the little curly things that look like a little snake on the top? Have you seen them? They just go "shhhhh." That's what they use that for. It kind of is fun. One other way that you can do your frosting pyramid is just go straight down and squeeze and just bring it straight up. So now we've got our cute little middle of our cute little rose going. Yeah, it sticks straight up and we're just gonna wrap our little petals around it. There we go. See how cute that is? It looks just like one that you just picked right off my little rosebush. Some of my white roses at home look like that. That one is cute that one's a good one. Let's see if I can finish this off. We'll do this one tiny. The smaller you want to make them, you just add a smidge of pressure instead of a lot of pressure. If you add a lot of pressure you're gonna make a big rose. It is, it's getting really warm. Who has a question about making these cute little roses? Okay, and I know you guys are masters at using your little star tips for shell borders. All right, so lets see what you can do. I think you got your tables set. Who would like to use this tip. Simone? Do you need a rose tip? Okay. I'll come around and check on you and see how you're doing. I want to see your masterpieces. I wanna see a couple of good roses from each of you. Kimberly, do you all need a rose tip over here? Do you need that? Okay. Sorry, let me get out of your way.
 Do we just do one or two?
 I want you to practice your borders and I want you to practice your rose tips. So if you have a rose tip at your table you'll probably have to share. I'll come around and check on you and see how it's going and if you have any problems or questions let me know.
 I have a question. [Background Chatter]
 That is a good question. It should be but it's not. Don't use this one. This works best if you take your bag and just snip it and just drop it straight back in the bag. Because this coupler is not designed to fit on this particular one. I'll get you a different one you can try. Brandi, have you used the super star one that makes-- have you used the leaf tip yet?
 No.
 Let's try leaves. The big giant one? This will not fit on here with your coupler. You'll have to use a different frosting bag. Most everything else that's out you can use. This one-- actually you might have fun with this one. This one makes swirlies. Cool, it just makes lines you just zigzag it. [Background Chatter]
 All the star tips are right here.
 Err, not the star but the rose.
 No, I think all of them are out. You guys will have to wait and trade out with each other. Yep, they're all out.
 I just suck at this.
 No you don't! Let me see. Start with this, Christina. Hold your handle. Handles are our friends.
 Ooh, it looks like a square rose!
 It does look like a square rose, that's cool. Okay, Britney make sure the big end goes to the bottom. The small end goes to the top. Remember your angles, too. 45 and these to Brandi and I'll be right back. Brandi? Here.
 How do I make this one work?
 Oh, this one is kind of fun. This one quite literally is something you'd finish off, like if you're making grass you just kind of swirl it around. You can do it like this. Yeah, there are two lines. Like if you wanted to do ziggy zags. You can do circles. You know like that. It's all about your pressure. Oh! What happened? What happened?
 They're laughing at my rose.
 What's wrong with it? That's a good start. Keep building on it. Now remember Leticia, this big part right here on this side-- that goes down. There you go. If it's not in the right location You may want to unscrew this and realign this. Try that, see if that works better for ya. Then remember you're twisting all at the same time. You're making like upside down U's, remember? Oh, you did miss that part of the lesson, too, didn't you. All right, let me show you and then I'll let you do one, okay? What you're gonna do, this big one always goes down. You're making like an upside down U. Just like that. You're gonna U and turn it all at the same time so that it's a slow turn and this motion all at the same time, okay? Then when you're done you just set that aside and do another one. Show me what you're doing. There you go. Hold it just like that. That's good. Hey, you're getting there. You're making a pyramid of frosting and you can do it one of two ways. You can either do it this way or straight up and down. Just make a big glob of frosting, and turn this all at the same time. There you go, just like that. Pull your frosting off, there you go. Okay now that's a good start, and now you're gonna start making your upside down U's. Usually you have three on your bottom layer. There you go. You're turning it all at the same time. It's all about the hand motion there you go, just like that. Just make little tiny ones all around. There ya go that looks good. There ya go. See, you can do this, Leticia. There, oh look how beautiful that is! It is! Oh my gosh. That's a perfect rosebud.
 Thank you.
 That's it. That's all you have to do. The bigger you wanna make your rose, the more levels you put around the outside edge, okay? If that's all you want then pull it off, set it aside, and do some more. That's it. All right, you've got the techniques and you know what to do. I'll come back and check on you. Yes. Yes, yes, yes. Oh come on show me. Show me, show me.
 At least it's better than theirs.
 Hey, you're getting there. I think you're doing the same thing that Leticia was doing. See this big piece. You've got it back. It needs to go down. If this is awkward for you and you need to twist this part of it. Just unscrew and re-navigate. Britney, that looks good.
 Wait, it is on bottom now.
 It is now because I just turned it. When you were doing it it wasn't. See how these are heavy on top? That's the reason. It'll be okay. Do you need some more?
 Is there anymore cut-out things?
 No, but there's stuff to do it. All right, I'll come back and check on you. Sierra, I'm gonna leave you in charge over here. If they need some help, let me know okay?
 Okay.
 Good job. Where are you over here? Yes! Yes, yes, yes! Star borders deluxe. Okay, so how are you doing? You're doing really good on those leaf tips. Have you tried any standing up? So you know how to do that? Literally you start here and you pull straight up on it at a 90 degree angle.
 What?
 Just like that.
 Like that, sometimes they roll over. The stiffer your frosting is the stiffer they are. See how you can get them to stand up? Just like that, or if you want them to lay on the side.
 If you go slow they stay up faster.
 Yeah, and it has to do with the consistency of your frosting, too. Remember what you put in it to make it a little bit thicker?
 Powdered sugar?
 Or you can do what? [Background Chatter]
 There you go. Sarah! Sarah, I have never seen-- Don't look. A big no-no. Oh man that's good frosting. Okay, all right yell at me. I stuck my thumb in it. I had to lick it off.
 It's really good by the way. It is. Don't do as I do, do as I say. That's kind of like momma's say. Ya know, I'm your school momma.
 It's not monkey see, monkey do. It's monkey do what monkey say.
 I'm telling ya, today it's Ms. Morris is doing something silly. All right, so Sarah show me another one. Show me some shell borders, cause I know you've practiced those. She will, she'll be-- I'll be back. That's cute. That's very stylish. Now, the tip that Ashley has the one that looks like the little grass that's got the two holes at the same time. If you're gonna do something real fancy if you'll do this one white and then put a colored one in there and do it back and forth it will kinda look like this. Holly, try it again. Try again.
 Where's the leaf?
 Leddy's got one of them.
 Do you guys have one? Okay show her what to do. It's pressure and release. Pressure and release. That one actually turned out really good. That one is a very good leaf. When you're working on your leaves for your cake this is what you want it to look like. If they start breaking off like this, you'll probably want to scrape them off. It's just a matter of the pressure and release thing. But those are looking really, really good. I know I'm gonna sneeze, too. Okay, maybe I'm not. Bless you. Hey Mariah. Show me what you can do. [Background Chatter]
 Oh, come on. Those are good ones. Those are cute. That's a cute border. Samantha, you're doing a really good job on that, too. [Background Chatter] Kailyn, that is awesome. So, have you practiced at home yet?
 No.
 Why not? I figured you would be-- I figured you would be practicing every chance you got.
 No, I don't have time.
 What do you mean you don't have time. Yeah, Drew told me you're working on your scrapbook. Good job, Brandi. All right, show me something that you can do. I wanna see somebody make a rose. I showed you how now I wanna see them. Yes, I wanna see you make a rose. Make another one. Oh, Let me-- You can use my frosting. I'll bring you some. Look, you did it! So what is the rule...
