 What I need you to do is, you're going to be looking at both sets of data, the one from October in the morning, and the one from last week in the afternoon. So I want you to work with your shoulder partners, okay? And the first thing I want you to look at, this table you can do all three. Isabella, you can come sit right here. You're gonna work with your shoulder partners and I'm just gonna take a second, and I want you to see what is common, what is in common, how is the data aligned? Okay? So I want you to work with your shoulder partners, want you to talk about what is in common with both days of data. [Background Chatter] Okay, where are you all standing? What is the same between those two days? [Background Chatter] You're looking from this day to this day, overall, what is the -- [Background Chatter]
 The heat that was trapped inside, the heat that was trapped inside got trapped because the black it was on, and the black soaks in the heat, so when the black soaks in the heat into the covers, it traps it into.
 Okay, y'all figured out about the black, look at your other. You have three other kind of solar water heaters, look there, see what other types you can find. [Background Chatter] What did y'all find out? The black cover covers it.
 Okay.
 The black cover, it's highest on both sheets.
 On both sheets? And what did you say?
 White is the lowest and white, uncovered is -- Whites are lower than blacks, and white uncovered is the lowest.
 Okay, okay. [Background Chatter] Okay, everyone find some similarities? [Background Chatter] Okay, if you can hear me clap once. [class claps one time] If you can hear me, clap twice. [class claps two times] Okay, just one thing. Don't tell me all the things that you have found the same. Table four, what did you find that was the same in those sets of data, Elijah?
 Only one went down.
 Okay, which one went down?
 White uncovered.
 Okay, so you saw that white uncovered went down. What's another scientific word for going down, everybody?
 Decrease.
 Okay, so white under decrease in both, okay. What else did you find, Alex?
 That the rankings were the same for each one.
 Okay, and when you're talking about the rankings, what are you meaning?
 Like, white uncover had decreased the most.
 Uh huh.
 Um, white covered was, was really toward the middle.
 Uh huh.
 Black uncovered was also, was the next one, and black covered was the last one. In order from the heat.
 Okay, does everyone agree?
 Yes.
 You all see the same thing? Now, what does it mean that black covered had more of a change than white uncovered? What does that mean, Justin?
 That black absorbed more heat.
 Okay, that black maybe absorbed the most. And what did the white do? Everybody?
 It reflected.
 It reflected, or Anthony, what were you gonna say?
 Absorbed the least.
 Absorbed the least, because it was reflecting. Now, okay, that was the easy part. Now, I want you to look at your graphs, and I want you to try to figure out things that are different, okay? Things that are different, this is a little tricky, okay. So you work with your partner, try to figure out the things that are different, okay? [Background Chatter] [Background Chatter]
 Okay, and how does that relate to the results? Look at these results, and how are these results different? [Background Chatter]
 Okay and so you have a wider range, than you do the width, okay. [Background Chatter] So what were you saying now?
 That, I think that the, they are so seperated out the first time we did it, than last week.
 Okay, girls, what do y'all think?
 I think here, it's like, up.
 Now think about why it would be a lot closer --
 Ooh. [Background Chatter]
 Okay, okay well let's take, he said hotter, the morning, what was our temperature?
 24.
 24? And the afternoon, what is? So think about what y'all talking about. [Background Chatter] Okay, y'all ready to report out? Okay, if you can hear me clap once. [class claps once] If you can hear me clap twice. [class claps two times] Okay, different. Give me one thing that was different, Stephanie?
 They all got different angles.
 Okay, the lines are different angles, you're right. What else? Chloe?
 At 10:30 A.M., all of them had, all of temperatures were higher, as well as to the 2:30 P.M.
 Higher temps in morning, okay. Um, what else, Kristin, can you think of something else? What do you think, Nick?
 There's different air temperature.
 Okay, there's a different air temperature. Okay, what else? Just looking at the overall graph, Justin? Just looking at just the picture of the graph, how does the picture look different from the morning to the afternoon?
 All of the temperatures went, got decreased.
 In the?
 In the um, at 2:30.
 Okay, and when you say decrease, which graph looked like this? The morning or the afternoon?
 The morning.
 The morning, which one looked like this?
 The afternoon.
 Okay, so overall, the graphs look a little different from the morning to the afternoon. Now, why do you think that could be? Why do you think that could be, Kristen?
 Because it's like, on the side [inaudible].
 Oh okay, here's our school, okay? This is where we did our experiment. And Kristen's saying that the morning time the sun's here, okay. Where was the sun in the afternoon, Anthony?
 It was like barely...
 Okay, okay, Semijah.
 It was in the clouds.
 Okay, it was, sometimes it was going behind the clouds. Where was it, Alex, where was it in the sky? You don't remember?
 Behind the school.
 Okay, behind the school. So this was our morning experiment, and this was our afternoon experiment. Okay, and did we get different kinds of data? Because what was truly pretty much the same? Between both days, besides the sun, what was the air temperature in the morning? [Background Chatter]
 25.
 25. Okay, so our air temperature stayed the same, but the thing that was different was what?
 Where the sun was.
 Where the sun was, okay. So thinking about that, we are going to try to get a solar water heater installed at the school, okay, a solar water heater installed at the school, so what other, do y'all know, a solar water heater, a hot water heater in your house, okay. When you get in the shower or get in the bath and you have warm water, how do you think that water's heated? Does anyone know? Peyton?
 You have the water in your, well you have a water heater in your garage or um --
 Okay, it's in your garage, but what's heating that water?
 The sun?
 No.
