 Our is, like, Crown-- Crown Royal, and, like, it shows, like, a helmet, and, like, an ad for it, and it says, "He who wears the crown, " I think that's, like, if you wear the helmet, you will seem cool.
 Mm-hmm, and the helmet is for what, do you think? Motorcycles or cars, kind of racing kind of stuff? And Crown Royal, tobacco or alcohol? Alcohol, and racing a car. Thoughts?
 Drinking and driving. Huh.
 Well, that's bad.
 But they appeal to your-- your, uh, love of racecars and motorcycles and cool stuff, but those two don't really mix, do they? Next group.
 Ours is tobacco, and it has a picture of a firefighter, and it says, A bit braver, so it's trying to hook you by you wanting to be braver, and trying tobacco.
 So the inference there would be that tobacco makes you braver? What do you think? Could it really work? If I chew tobacco? Am I gonna be able to fight a fire?
 No.
 But firefighting appeals to a lot of young children, right? That bravery, that toughness, that rugged fireman thing. It's like, if I do chewing tobacco, I'm a rugged fireman type. Um, what are my teeth gonna look like, though?
 [together] Yellow.
 Not gonna look like the rugged fireman type, am I? [Background Chatter]
 Fireman sounds like he smiles, is that what you said? All right, um, ladies?
 Um, ours was alcohol, and, um, they got our attention by, like, the grandma and the daughter playing patty-cake and telling stories about her.
 So grandma and daughter-- and granddaughter playing patty-cake, lovely little sunny porch, sponsored by... ?
 Budweiser.
 Oh, my.
 Oh, that's so popular.
 So drink? You're appealing to the family nature? And the message is, drink our drink.
 Yeah, it says that, like, all stories weren't about family, they also had some other stuff.
 Family and Budweiser.
 Yeah.
 No.
 Yeah, you're getting it now. All right. Ladies?
 Um, ours is, um--
 There's isn't really an ad. There's is a display at a grocery store.
 Yeah, like, there is, um, a whole bunch of, like, alcohol in the background, and up closer, there's tobacco, and then there's a bunch a candy bars that should appeal to the little kids.
 Right next to the... ?
 The tobacco.
 Tobacco, okay. Candy bars.
 Like right there, and then, um, also you have pretty much the candy.
 Alcohol behind the booth, tobacco right up front, and candy bars right at hand level.
 Kids would probably think that tobacco's candy.
 They might.
 Or as good as candy.
 Does tobacco come in flavors like candy does?
 [together] Yeah.
 No.
 Yes, it does.
 Oh.
 Mint, berry, apple.
 Ew, really?
 Really. Hey, I think I missed a group. Did I miss a group? This one up front? Nope. Did I get you guys already? Did you guys share? Oh, you did share, just with me. Share with the rest of the group. It's
 Ours is alcohol and, like, if you're a rockstar, you'll drink, like, if you drink this, then you will become a rockstar.
 What hook did they use?
 The girls in bikinis.
 So how many guys are in that picture?
 One.
 One guy, and he's the one who's drinking the alcohol, and... ?
 Fifteen girls.
 Fifteen girls in bikinis. So if-- the message is, if you drink this... ?
 You'll get hot girls.
 You'll get hot girls, yeah. [Background Chatter]
 All right, you've had a chance to let-- Oh, sorry. Eyes. Ears. Mouth. Thanks. You've had a chance to look at these ads. Um, you've got a chance to see how they're trying to hook you in. You're knowing that the messages that they're sending are slightly warped. It's their trick to pull you in, but it's your job to think and process through using your critical thinking skills. Weigh it out. Consider, but then choose something else that's healthier. So we've looked at negative influences. It's time to talk about positive influences in your life, things that can help you say no to all of that, no matter how appealing it is, no matter how many girls in bikinis show up. Leave your cards right where they are in the center. It's time to take a look at the charts that are around the room. There are five of them. These are activities you can do instead of things like using drugs, alcohol, tobacco, like a social activity, um, something you can do with someone else. Ideas?
 Have a sleepover.
 Sleepover, good. All right, so in just a few minutes, we're gonna be rotating around the charts with different groupings. We're gonna be writing down our ideas of other positive things instead of this. Can anyone name one physical activity, something you can do that would be instead of using drugs, a positive thing? Football? Yeah. Did you want to share too? Go ahead.
 Um, riding your bike around the block.
 Good. You're on the right track, guys. Keep those ideas in your head. When you get to the chart, you'll have to write it down. What's something you can do with your brain, a mental activity that would be positive?
 Chess.
 Chess.
 I like chess.
 Math. Not for everybody, I understand. Um, this chart over here says "Emotional." What's something you can do, um, that can make your emotions feel better, your passions, or whatever? How can you support yourself emotionally, so you can say no to this?
 Trying to think happy.
 Yep. Positive thoughts.
 Watching emotional movies.
 Definitely gets your mind off those. I know you got great ideas, and I'm gonna be willing to see those on those papers in just a few minutes, so save them in your head.
 Okay.
 The last one is spiritual. Spiritual. Somehow you can nurture your spirit, so you have the ability to say no to negative influences.
 Go to church.
 Church. All right. Save it. You'll get a chance. Time to look at your pencils again. Leave your papers right where they are, okay? Face-up. This time, we're gonna go by color, and you might notice that there are markers at each station, for the right color. So when you get to the station, if you are-- patience. I promise I'll explain it. No worries. When you get to your station, we're gonna start with your bag of colors. You will take your bag of colors and your marker, and you will only use your color marker. So if you are a green guy, you would grab a green marker and you will be writing at this station first. You'll write down however many ideas you want. You'll talk it out with your group. You might notice, Mitchell, that I also put group work, uh, reminders up here, about how to work with others in your group. One, everybody has the right to speak, so make sure you give everybody a chance to talk it out if they need to, and to write it down, the topic. Don't interrupt. Give everybody a chance to share their side. Two, everybody has the right to be respected. We're not looking for put downs. We're looking for ones that can encourage us, positive things, so when you're getting ready to write positive things, speak positively to each other as well. And three, everyone has to agree to work together to solve a conflict. So if you're having a difficulty in your group, talk it out. Work together to solve that problem. If it's not working, and you can't solve the problem, who can you turn to for help?
 You?
 Me. And others in your group. So if you're a green person, you're gonna get one green marker, and there are multiple in here, in case your marker doesn't work. Get a different one. Write down whatever ideas you want. When you hear me say, "Switch," or, "Rotate," you move to the next chart around like the face of a clock. Take your marker with you. So there'll be multiple colors on here. You'll get a chance to write on every one. Yes?
 How does this work? Are you supposed to write it down like a list?
 You can write all over that paper. Yeah. Anywhere, as long as we're on the front. Everywhere, all over that paper, so you can all be on there at the same time as you want, you can take turns, you can arrange however you and your group want to. You each can have a marker, though. There's plenty of them for everyone. Yellow's are over here at "Emotional," um, I believe blue's are "Social," purple's are "Physical," and oranges are "Mental." Questions before we begin? Think about something to do besides. You'll have approximately 30 seconds to a minute, so listen for me to say, "Switch." Keep writing until I say it. Go! [Background Chatter]
 Here. How about we take this and put it on the floor. Does that work better? I know, it's going everywhere, isn't it? Here you go. You guys want to take that one down, too, put it on the floor, so it's a little easier to write on?
 Yeah.
 Good.
 I know, isn't it cool?
 Yeah.
 So I see you got chess on there. Anyone think of some other ones? Other mental, ways to use your brain, things you can think about it? [Background Chatter]
 Think of school kind of activities, things related to learning, using the brain. Spelling. You can practice your spelling. You can do your math. I think you guys are in right place. You have a lot of good ideas. Tell me your favorite one so far. [Background Chatter]
 Give him a spot.
 Good.
 How do you spell "baseball"? [Background Chatter]
 Oh, online. The Playstation, yeah, that is definitely a social event.
 I've got XBox Live.
 So social means involving what? Talking to other people, human beings, a relationship with them? All right. Ready in 10, nine, finish what you're writing, eight, seven, six, taking your marker with you in five...
 Oh, our marker?
 Four. Yep. Your writing in your color. Three, two, one, rotate. [Background Chatter]
 Spiritual. All things that are spiritual. What does that really mean?
 Your spirit?
 Your spirit, yeah. It could be feelings. I think we did emotions, though, right?
 Yeah.
 So this one would be more nurturing your soul, yourself.
 We've got meditation.
 We've got mediation, right.
 Yoga!
 Oh, yeah! Why don't you write that one down?
 How do you spell "yoga"?
 Yes, perfect. The Bible, poems. How much do you connect with your spirit or your soul? Any other resources or people? Pastor from a church. Friends you know from the church, or wherever you attend services. Who else besides a pastor can lead, um, a group?
 You can pray.
 Pray, good. You guys are on the right track. Emotional support. Where can we find emotional support? Family, friends, good. Who are some other resources for emotional support? Culture? How can we nurture your own good feelings? What do you do to feel better?
 Cuddle your pets.
 Cuddle your pets. You know that one's my favorite, too.
 It's okay, you don't have to spell things. All right, capping markers. Ready to move? 10, nine, eight, seven, six, ready gentlemen in five, taking your marker in four, three, two, one. Rotate. [Background Chatter]
