 But you're putting children in your sweatshops.
 How are you gonna get more money? How are you gonna finance the country still?
 Both of you need to listen to Cambodia. Because Cambodia...
 I am awesome, Cambodia is awesome!
 What are you doing to fix this?
 Well, for the money problem, I'm not really sure, but you can get loans for other wealthier countries and then as you're getting better, pay 'em off and then for, and then for child labor, you make a law that kids have to go to school and learn, so that way they can get better skills and stuff. And then put their, after that works and everything to age laws. I'm the only one with an answer!
 I have no child labor whatsoever.
 Whoa, whoa, whoa, I thought we discussed that you do have child labor, but...
 Well, we do have some child labor but it's more the grits going in and making your child choose the forms to get hired.
 So, what do I win as the only one with an answer?
 How did you pull your country off child labor? You need to be giving them suggestions and ideas, OK, what can we do, what can we do to crack...
 You told us some solutions the other day.
 Right, so that's why you guys are supposed to be discussing now.
 OK. China do you wanna go ahead and...
 So, China, you know how to get rid of all your child labor in your country? You have a plan, you have your whole plan in place...
 Pretty much.
 What's the first step, what's the second step, what's the third step, what you're gonna do.
 Yeah, you wanna hear it?
 I do.
 First, we'll make it illegal for children to work all day. And the other half they go to school...
 OK, but wait a minute, but don't your parents, your families depend on that income that those children are bringing in?
 Yes, but if they work half the day, while they're at school, they still earn money.
 But then they're losing half their income.
 But then on weekends they can.
 But they work weekends right now, anyway.
 Maybe we could establish a minimum wage over there.
 Oh! Now there's an idea!
 What?
 They could establish a minimum wage.
 Yeah.
 OK, so you're gonna establish a minimum wage.
 Yes, and going to school to get a education helps them get better jobs when they're employed so they can get more money with better jobs, so then they don't have that issue...
 So what are you going to do in the process, because you are gonna have to have children leaving the workforce, just starting to get their education that takes several years for that generation to become educated, what are you gonna do in that gap? You still have to have a plan for those 12, 13, 14 years.
 What about programs like those they used in like the de, de, depression, that's the word!
 OK, that's what you guys should be discussing, those are some of the things you should be coming up with.
 They could start...
 Keep in mind that needs money.
 But then they would get loans from wealthier countries, and as they're getting stronger and more...
 OK, take those ideas and work with them. You guys are on the right track, you're rolling with it.
 So, put that down, establish a minimum wage...
 OK, Cameroon, what was your solution...
 Say the children stop working, and the adults get it, well it would be taking money away from the family. Not other than the ones we came up with on Friday, like have countries send money.
 What about that like education like half school half work campaign, it's like where where you're working, part of your wages pay for your school and then you take the rest home
 And then, like, with me, in my country, already go to school. So, I guess all those times you mentioned. But they only go for like six years, from age 7 to... Wait, I don't know.
 [Student in blue] OK, anyway, that would help with like the country being...
 France for the win! Like the same thing but more...
 Coffee, OK, if it was our major export it would get rid of poverty and many things.
 Where's your country? Where's your country? OK, never mind. I was thinking you move at the same time, but no.
 If we work together with the coffee export, like... If we combine the export... If we produce... Well, I meant like from whatever we sell, we could try to hawk them together, to help each other create better education...
 Y'all can combine your profits in coffee, and begin making schools.
 You have an industry that brings in a lot of potential money, correct?
 Right.
 OK, but remember, you don't sell that product to the customers, you're selling it to the businesses. But that's bringing money in to your businesses. It's the businesses that hire people and you create jobs. So you need to figure out a way to take that industry, that product and expand it, so that it's bringing more money and bringing more jobs. Which is gonna help because then you'll have adults, you have 45% income.
 We can combine it so that children who are of suitable ages can have jobs.
 What would be a suitable age?
 Eighteen.
 Eighteen? This mine is not an easy job, is it? It's hard work, it's dangerous down there. To have twelve-year-old kids down there...
 You're still United Nations, correct? Is that gonna be agreeable to you? You can create laws that forbid businesses from running her product. So whatever she suggests to you, you have to make sure that that's OK, because, remember, you can tell her, sorry it's not gonna happen.
 Yup.
 Which means you have more money going out than coming in, correct? So you need to figure out a way to change that. You need some money coming in. So what are the strengths your country has? That you could potentially build and grow, when she's got the diamonds.
 I saw a pendant on the internet, and it had like, a string and there was like three fat fond doves on one string.
 OK, that's a factory purchase, but what you could make...
 I don't know.
 That's what you need to know. What does your economy depend on? I mean, you have to produce something.
 It says making foreign... OK, I have a question, what is a "foreign exchange?"
 It's Nestea's largest exporter, so you are exporting product. So you do have some products that you're exporting. Oh, you're Taiwan? You have a lot of textile factories, you make clothing. Your country's the one that's got all the sweatshops. So that's what you need, you need to build... You should be suggesting some ideas to her. Giving her ideas, say, OK, you've got a product to export, but you need to do this, and you need to do this, and you need to do this.
 [Student in green] They need to find some way to pay.
 Exactly.
 Wait, I have a question for the United Nations. OK, how you said, setting up your steps, well if there's not a lot of educated people, then how are they gonna find teachers?
 Well, if you said, exactly... Well, first...
 You could hire people from...
 Different countries. Maybe if you like hired somebody from like the US that's educated, they could do administry of helping like educating adults and then they're educated. They're doing the same thing that kids are, they've been in child labor and stuff, plus when they got older, they're just working again, so they haven't really changed anything, so to change that, I guess, maybe if you got other countries to come and educate them and then after that they could the educate the children. So you couldn't get the kids out of the work so fast because you still have to educate all the teachers. And the kids have no where to go.
 Well, I say, since they're already adults, that we kinda like, work on the children more with education. I guess because the children are small.
 So, before you even take the kids out of these places You have to get all the people, and you have to... So you have to figure out some, like, you're gonna have to figure out a timespan of how long that's gonna take. It's basically, you're taking, elementary schools you like.
 I mean, they could set up a scholarship. That way they could go from like...
 And even, your country could help pay, help pay the people that are teaching. Because in the long run, you're gaining, that money's gonna be spent...
 The population is gonna face it, they get the cotton for the clothes, and get the food for their teachers and all that.
 If we can help poverty... To help pay for some schools.
 Yes, that would be amazing.
 We could also have all the adults work the rest of their life, like, insanely or something.
 I'm the government, I can say, hey, there's laws now that a kid's gotta go to school, and he can't work so many days of work, so many hours of work.
