 [Insructor] Gina.
 I wanted to test the amount of acid in different brands of antacids, example Alka-Seltzer, Maalox and Tums, can effectively neutralize.
 Okay, so far we've been listening to this, are we talking mostly the same equipment, same supplies?
 Yeah.
 Right? Maybe some beakers, maybe some pipettes and some base? Right? Okay, is this similar to, Juan's? This one is, right? So maybe we can start grouping these two together. Christina.
 The goal of my investigation is to determine which laundry detergent is most effective, Tide, Clorox, or OxyClean by determining which is most basic.
 Any concerns? Yeah? Adrian?
 How do you know that the most effective detergents are gonna be the most basic? Maybe there's some other factors that go into that and they're, it's just, basic-ness.
 Juan?
 That some of them have really strong bases and maybe the vapors, I mean, Some of them have safety warnings that say like, don't get too close to the vapors that come out.
 Okay, so there could be some toxic chemicals that are associated with these which is why we shouldn't use them? Is that what you mean?
 Yeah.
 Okay, okay, we use them in our homes, but don't bring them to school, right?
 Yeah, I'm a little concerned too, about your idea that it's about which one is most basic. Okay? 'Cause the active ingredient in Clorox, I think, is bleach, and bleach--
 Sodium hypochlorite.
 Is sodium hypochlorite.
 Which has a pretty interesting smell.
 I'd stay away from that. And then we have Tide, right? Tide is not bleach, all right? I'm not sure what the actual detergent, active ingredient is, but I'm pretty sure it's not bleach. So, this is probably going to require some cleaning up and making sure that we test something that we can test, and that it makes sense why we're testing it. Okay? All right, we'll come back to this.
 And OxyClean is powered by Billy Mays, so it doesn't matter, it wins anyway.
 I think he died, didn't he?
 Yeah he did, it's too bad.
 You know, that guy must have made so much money, I better not complain.
 Adrian! Go ahead.
 I will find the molarity of one of the magnesium sulfate bottles in the lab inventory. To do this I'll mix 50 milliliters of magnesium sulfate with 50 milliliters of one molar calcium chloride in a beaker. I'll mix it to form a precipitate of calcium sulfate. After as much precipitate as possible has formed I'll weigh the precipitate and calculate the molarity of the magnesium sulfate solution with the data collected.
 Any ideas? Jimmy?
 I'm kinda wondering why it's important to you, like you said, to make the lab meaningful.
 Yeah, it should be. So Adrian, do you have a response?
 It's just 'cause bottles that don't have molarity kind of annoy me, and I feel like I should, there should be like a label that says the molarity, I just kinda...
 You know my room is open fifth period every day, you can come on in and do these experiments and get them so that you know their concentrations.
 I don't have a free fifth period.
 After school's fine too.
 That's cool, that's cool.
 What concerns me is, I thought the theme was titration, right? Is the theme titration? Okay, where is the titration aspect to this? Do you know what I'm asking here?
 Yeah, I know, I just didn't realize.
 Because you're mixing, you're doing a precipitate reaction, everybody see it that way. I think you're doing a precipitate reaction and, so I just feel like, you know, this, you had the wrong theme going on here. Anyway, we'll move on. Nicholas, Artel, Artel. Sirhan Sirhan, although he was a bad man, though I think, right? He was accused of being a bad man. Go ahead!
 The goal of my investigation is to see which of two pills have more Vitamin C per pills and weigh them to 100 milligrams and cut away mass as appropriate, crush them, dissolve in water and use a base to titrate it. I would also use a pH sensor to see what the solution, to see when the solution is at seven, to see when it's neutralized. Doing this will let me know which company I should buy from for my Vitamin C pills.
 What do you guys think? Vitamin C is ascorbic acid, I don't know if you wrote that. Did you? No, okay, so if it's an acid, you can titrate it, right? Is anybody concerned about, like, anything here? Jimmy?
 Don't the pills tell you how much Vitamin C is in them? Like, the bottle?
 Wait, let me make sure, if you buy a Vitamin C that says 100 milligrams of Vitamin C, my assumption is when you pull out one of them tablets, and you crush it and you do this experiment, it's gonna be close to that 100 milligrams. So are you testing because you think they're not accurate?
 Yeah.
 Oh! Okay, so you're testing for accuracy on their part, just to keep them honest.
 Because, I mean, 100 milligrams, it's kind of a, non-specific number.
 All right, Ian?
 Actually, another way you could look at it is that, just because it says 100 milligrams, that's how much of the Vitamin C is in it, that's not how big the tablet is. Being that sometime, I mean you could have, and say, just arbitrary numbers, you could have a 500 milligram tablet that has that 100 milligrams of vitamin C, or you could have a 200 milligram tablet with that same 100 milligrams of vitamin C, so you might wanna know which one actually had more stuff in it, actually had more stuff in it per, density.
 Okay but, is that what you want him to do, I thought, are you doing it because you wanna make sure that when they write 100, you don't care how big this tablet is, unless, unless, what's the danger here? Some of that other that tablet contains, acids or bases in them, then that would affect your results, right?
 One of them I have is pretty pure, it's pretty much just ascorbic acid, the other company I have does have some other stuff in it, so I was wondering if anybody else had like one that was mostly Vitamin C.
 Have you ever been to like, the CVS and looked in the section--
 I mean, I could find one I just haven't--
 There's a bunch, you could even--
 What'd you guys figure out?
 It's turning yellow.
 Why do you think it's doing that?
 Maybe the bicarbonate when it dissolves, gets out some CO2 and turns it acidic. I didn't think it would be that big of a deal because--
 Wait! Hang on, so you mean, so far what you've done is you've crushed these things you tried to dissolve them and you added some bromothymol blue?
 Yeah.
 And, that bromothymol blue is not quite the color that you want?
 That's right.
 That's what you're saying?
 Yeah.
 What color should it be?
 Blue, I guess. It's kind of, green. It just looks as if this coloring is just, green dye.
 Have you thought about using like phenolphthalein? That has a distinctly pink color, otherwise it's clear.
 No, we did not think of that.
 You wanna try that?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, that'd be better. [Background Chatter]
 So, the phenolphthalein is gonna be, it's probably going to be behind... - If it's pink it's acidic right?
 No, if it's basic. [Background Chatter]
 Do the bubbles matter?
 All right, could I just stop and ask you guys, did you guys get your color change you were looking for?
 Yeah.
 So the titration is working out?
 [together] Yep.
 Very clean.
 What? So, tell me what you got here?
 This is a disinfecting Clorox, we're just starting out, we're just trying to measure out 10 milliliters. That one we're done with, we got it to the brown, like, it didn't stir anymore, that was it.
 That's as far as it went?
 We put in 61 and that was it. Now we're going to start this one. And that worked with the one molar.
 So is this, oh, so this is a different concentration? Or how is this one different, this is just a different--
 This is a different type, and it's a different percentage of the hypochlorate.
 That's disinfecting spray and that's bleach.
 With a different type of Clorox cleaning product.
 All right. Did you make sure that mixing some of these would not produce anything poisonous?
 No, we did not make sure. But they're--
 I just wanna, you know, we don't wanna create any of these strange gases coming out of here.
 When we looked at the reaction this is the reaction that they showed on the thing. And this was fine, like it said it should be done in basic and everything.
 Okay.
 God bless you.
 Excuse me. [Background Chatter]
 How's everything going?
 Not good with this one.
 What's in there?
 It's red wine vinegar.
 But it hasn't changed color.
 The treatment's too powerful.
 Yeah, we're thinking it's too...
 So, we're gonna do the white--
 What's the solution to that, then? Why don't you just use less?
 Less of the vinegar?
 Right. All right?
 So we use five milliliters instead of
 Well, I mean, right? If you use less, then don't you think you'll be able to titrate it--
 Easier.
 Well, you'd need less base to get there.
 Right.
 Okay.
 Let's go over here, see what happens over here. [Background Chatter]
 So, squeeze that out.
 What are you guys, so you've got Vitamin C, crushed in there, you used, is this bromothymol blue, what did you use?
 Yeah, we used BTB, and now we're gonna see how much base we used.
 Just out of curiosity, why did you use a graduat--, what is this about, 50? You didn't want to use like... 'Cause that is, are you gonna--
 All the other ones were like dirty.
 Yeah, they were kinda...
 And I think this is accurate to two sig figs which is our experiment's limit. [Background Chatter]
 All right, coming along okay it looks like.
 [together] 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
 Hi!
 You're adding 20 drops of bromothymol blue?
 Yeah. Is that too much?
 Well, has it occurred to you, and it probably hasn't, it's okay, bromothymol blue itself is either a weak, my guess is it's a weak acid, it could be a weak base, but all indicators are going to be weak acids and bases. So, we always want to use a bare minimum amount. Therefore, how about if you use something that has a distinct color change, roughly at the, neutral point, like phenolphthalein. 'Cause then it'll go from pink, your...
 This is acid.
 These are acids, so they'll go from clear to a pinkish color.
 Okay, okay, but do you think the pink will be able to be seen?
 Well--
 Like the blue one?
 You know, the blue you need to use a lot more to get there, although, I don't know, I suppose since you already did this one--
 I mean, we could remeasure, out--
 You may wanna, well, we don't want to run out of time here, so, right? Stay consistent and then consider it, how you can make improvements later.
 Okay.
 All right? [Background Chatter] [clapping and laughter]
 Now that's very nice.
 You guys have questions?
 What was your results in comparing what the company says and what you--
 There was a little bit less, since we used 500 milligrams and the company labeled it as pretty much pure, pure ascorbic acid. As in the first trials it was around 480 per kil to, which is, it's pretty close and the other one was around than what you're probably paying for. But--
 But that's, then again, it could've been, because--
 Because not all the powder dissolved, some of it was still settled on the bottom.
 So they could be really accurate?
 Yeah they could be, you know, dead on.
 For the trials, did you guys use different amounts of stuff, for the two trials?
 For the first two trials we used 500 milligrams of powder for each pill, and then, for the third trial we used 100, right? A hundred.
 And then for those trials, like the third one you said you used a different concentration of NaOH?
 Yeah.
 Why did you use a different concentration?
 First of all there wasn't much left of the .567, and also, you know, who's to--, you know, maybe that could've been contaminated, it might not have been .567, so it's also good to use some different stuff sometimes.
 Right.
 You can't always base it, you can't have it all on one thing.
 Yeah, that's smart.
 How did yo actually figure out the amounts? What was the math?
 [together] Oh!
 We did the stoichiometry.
 Yeah, but we assumed that it was a one-to-one ratio, one hydrogen ion dissolved from the ascorbic acid from one OH from the base. And so we just calculated moles and changed moles to grams using the formula mass of Vitamin C.
 Do you know with certainty that ascorbic acid is one H plus?
 No we just assumed that, for the experiment.
 Maybe you should look that up.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 The other thing, anybody else? So the other thing is, and I just wanna make sure, when you said 500 milligrams, that's .5 grams, right?
 We did it accurate with--
 Yeah, 'cause that thing, the scales here give you two sig figs, right? Okay, I mean to the hundredths, hundredths of a gram, right? So you crush this thing and you weighed out .50?
 [together] Yeah.
 That's what you did it? How much was left in the... ; I mean, of one tablet, when you, you know what I mean? When you crush it?
 Yeah--
 How much--
 We had excess, I mean, one of the pills I had was 1000 milligrams, so we, you know, we had about, we had a, like, about,
 It is my fault for--
 Oh, you were using 1000 milligram tablets.
 And then my pill was 500 milligrams and then we weighed them and it was actually six five seven, like milligrams.
 That's how we removed--
 So we had to-- we removed mass.
 Oh, well how 'bout this, if it, if they say 500, but the thing weighs six... What'd you say, six or seven hundred?
 Oh yeah.
 Then, aren't there other ingredients already in there?
 Not that were listed, like--
 Yeah, they weren't listed--
 It just said, it just said Vitamin C--
 Because they might just list the active ingredient, right?
 Yeah.
 In other words, if the pill itself weighs more than the 500 that they claim, my guess would be there's more of something else.
 Okay.
 Because here's another thing. Don't you need possibly a binding agent to keep all the Vitamin C in a clump? Do you see what I'm saying?
 [together] Yeah , yeah.
 And they'll typically use, some, there's gonna be some certain chemicals they're gonna use that's in there. So I have a feeling before you write the company, be careful, they're--
 [together] Yeah, yeah.
 They probably added other ingredients.
 Yeah.
 Because what I think might've been even better is if they claim 500, then why don't you just crush the whole thing, regardless of how much it weighs? And then titrate that. You see what I'm saying?
 [together] Yes.
 'Cause then, they're claiming there's the... You see what I'm saying?
 So that would be taking further just simply--
 Yeah, that would be--
 The experiment.
 Wouldn't that be like the next--
 Yeah.
 Thing that you could try? Same thing with 1000, right? I mean if they claim 1000.
 Yeah.
 Go crush the whole thing and see what--
