 Okay, so for our first trial, we just wanted to see how long it would take for 25 milliliters of magnesium hydroxide to turn into acid by adding HCL, and it took 73.5 milliliters.
 And for our second trial, we had the same amount of milk of magnesia, but this time, we diluted it with 100 milliliters of water. And it took less HCL, hydrochloric acid than in the first trial that we did.
 And, the first time, we only added five drops of phenylthalene, and the second time we added ten drops just to see if it would make it different, and the ten drops definitely made it pinker, but we don't think it affected the results because phenylthalene is just the indicator, and not part of the reaction.
 You guys actually brought up a good point. How many groups added phenylthalene in large quantities? (laughter) How many think that you didn't add enough? Let's just ask that. (scattered mumbling) Or, how would you know if you added too much or not enough? Alright, go ahead, Will.
 Well, as long as it turns pink, you know that the indicator's working.
 [Instructor] What if it's pinker?
 It wouldn't matter because it turns clear towards the end.
 [Instructor] What do other people think? Alright, Vivian?
 I feel like if there's not enough indicator that when you add more and more HCL to the solution, it becomes, the pink color becomes so diluted that you can hardly tell when it turns clear and when it turns back to very pale pink. So, I don't think there's such a thing as adding too much indicator. Our group added about five drops, and that was enough.
 [Instructor] Okay, what, Tad?
 Actually, adding too much indicator is bad for the experiment because that would distort the actual concentration of reactants. So, in an extreme case, if we added like 100 milliliters of indicator, that would definitely distort the concentration.
 [Instructor] True, what do people think about that? Alright, Jimmy?
 The indicator doesn't participate in the overall reaction so it doesn't really make a difference.
 [Instructor] What do people have to say to that? Alright, why don't you take Discuss, would adding too much indicator, would that affect your concentration? Like, in terms of volume, maybe you're adding to more volume of your reaction, would that affect the concentrations of your reactants? (children talking loudly) Okay, thoughts? Alright, Jerry.
 I feel like if you added the indicator, it would dilute the solution because it would be somewhat like water, if you added, let's say, would change the concentration.
 [Instructor] Okay, alright, Stephanie?
 I think it would, like, because if you started out with 25 milliliters of milk of magnesia, even if you add a lot of phenylthalene, it would still be 25 milliliters of milk of magnesia and that's what's reacting. So, I don't think it affects it.
 Alright, Mackenzie?
 Isn't pH determined by the concentration of hydroxide or hydrogen ions? So, if it's, it would be moles over liters, so if there were more liters, it would be a smaller concentration, right?
 Alright, Corey?
 It's mostly about the moles because if the moles of each of the acid and the base combine, they will neutralize. It doesn't really matter, the over liters, as long as the moles are equal.
 [Instructor] Okay, Rick?
 Well, since phenylthalene is an indicator, it doesn't actually participate in the reaction, just like water, so adding it would just increase the volume which, as he said, which would dilute the solution. Adding a lot would have a profound affect, but adding a little bit wouldn't actually make a difference.
 [Instructor] Okay, Richard?
 It would, because there's a lower concentration, it would take a lot longer for it to react, meaning that it greatly increases the risk of error. Because, when you're using a burette, it's continuously dripping so then, if you're swirling and it doesn't react as fast, then you have more that goes in before you actually realize it.
 So, those are all good thoughts that you guys came up with, and all reasonable. It does affect the concentration, and when you add a few drops, just like Vivian said, if you don't add enough, then it's still indicating, but in terms of the overall concentration, the concentration of the phenylthalene would be relatively small, and so that's why you see, like a very faint pink, but it's still indicating. Now, if you add more drops, of course you're going to have a darker pink, but the overall reaction volume would increase and so, if you add drops of phenylthalene, if you're adding like, five drops, compared to your overall reaction volume, it wouldn't be that big of a difference. So you would still have some source of error, but since you're only adding five drops as opposed to five million drops, five million drops could conceivably double your reaction volume and then your concentration on a greater scale would be affected. You know, it would make it so it's more diluted. Okay, does that make sense to everyone? Alright, those were all good comments. Anyone else have a comment? Alright, so let's go to table two.
 In last week's experiment, we were testing how much HCL it would take to neutralize 25 mL of milk of magnesia. First, we measured 25 mL of milk of magnesia using a graduated cylinder and add the milk of magnesia into the flask, and then we add three drop of phenylthalene as indicator to the flask. Then, we slowly used the burette to drop the HCL into the flask and it took us 55.5 mL of HCL to clear the solution.
 Every time we'd see that it's clear, it took the solution longer time. So, the first time, we stopped putting, we stopped adding HCL, but then it only took about one second to turn back to pink. But then, after the third or fourth stop that we made, it took longer than one second, so by the time it took, so like, towards the end, it didn't turn pink anymore.
 So, for the second trial, what we did, instead of using just 25 milliliters of milk of magnesia, we just used 15 milliliters, and diluted it with ten milliliters of water to see if there's a change in the amount of HCL we used, and it did, because it took a lot less, which was 35.5 milliliters of HCL as compared to the first trial where we used 55.5.
 So, we thought there might be a relation between the concentration of trial two versus trial one. It was roughly, 35.5 is roughly two thirds the amount it took for the m.o.m to come clear as over HCL, and we were kind of surprised by the results because we didn't expect it to keep going back to pink after it turned clear once.
 Do you think you did something wrong?
 Well, we kind of did, but then we remembered that this reaction was actually reversible, so then we tried it again and then we eventually made it all clear. (group members agree)
 Did anyone else, did any other groups think that, when the reaction was happening, that you had done something wrong? Or were surprised by the results? Alright, Ian?
 Oh, no, just saying yes.
 [Instructor] Okay, anyone have a comment?
 We thought something was going wrong because it took a lot of HCL for the indicator to start working.
 [Instructor] What do you mean start working?
 To start turning opaque, because it was pink for a long time. We had to add extra HCL to the burette.
 We actually thought that it wouldn't stop turning pink because we stopped it for about three times, stopped the burette from running, and every time it kept changing color. So, we thought that happened throughout the experiment.
 Did you think it was going to go on forever?
 Yep.
 Okay, any other groups? Alright, Andrew?
 We noticed that, yeah, what they said. It changed to clear, and then after we stopped stirring it it would go back to pink. We thought it was the reversible reaction rates, but then, like we were surprised at how big a difference it was, because it was really clear when we were stirring it, but once we stopped, became really pink.
 [Instructor] Okay, alright, Will?
 There was also a transitional phase where it turned light, and we thought that was the phase it would turn into, rather than clear, so we actually stopped it there, but then we looked around and realized that people with a less concentration turned clear, so we started adding more.
 [Instructor] Okay, alright, group three?
 First, we used 25 milliliters of milk of magnesia, and then we took 200 milliliters of water to dilute it and then we added five drops of phenylthalene. It took about 7 milliliters of one molar HCL to actually fully, huh? Yeah, it took 70 milliliters, and then it stayed clear from there.
 For the second trial, we want to see if we added less milk of magnesia, would it, would the time decrease? I mean the time to neutralize decrease. And so, we add 15 mL of magnesia and the same amount of H2O, and so we used up about
 So, I heard something about timing, because I heard the first couple groups timed some of the things. What did you guys time, and why did you choose to time that? Here, let's start here because you guys timed something. What did you time, and why did you choose to time that?
 Well, basically, I think we're just measuring the amount of HCL we used up, and see how many times we need to stop the burette for.
 Well, we observed that it kept changing from pink to clear but the more HCL we put, the faster it was, from the switch, so we kept adding HCL, and it turned all clear.
 It turned all clear, the faster--
 The previous times were milky white, and then towards the end, it becomes clear. Like, totally clear.
 Okay, did anyone observe something different, in terms of the amount of time that it took for it to turn back to pink? Okay, table six?
 As we added more HCL, the white color persisted longer and it took longer for it to turn back to pink.
 [Instructor] Okay, so, yeah, Rick?
 I don't think time really matters in this experiment because the changing of the colors in the reaction depended more on the amount that was added, rather than the time you left it in there. So, if you add more, of course it's going to change quicker but it doesn't matter, like how long you have to wait for.
 So, you guys were saying that when you added the HCL, that it changed quicker to white, and then it took longer for it to turn back to pink. Okay, Gabriel?
 We timed it because we think that there might be a connection between the time it takes each time to turn back to pink and the concentration of the reactants because the longer it takes to turn back to pink might mean that there are less reactants and therefore, it will take a long time to get back to the reactions, right back to the products which turns it to pink.
 [Instructor] Okay, alright, Corey?
 I was saying that it was faster turning back to pink.
 The reaction was actually, it was slower going back to pink. That's okay. Okay, let's go to table four.
 In our experiment, in our procedure, actually, we had two beakers of the magnesium hydroxide, and one beaker, we would heat, instead of diluting it, we would heat up one beaker to around 50 degrees Celsius, and we would perform the experiment with adding HCL using the burette, and in the other beaker, we would leave it in room temperature, which is around 25 degrees Celsius, and we would do the same procedure, adding the HCL with the burette.
 Our purpose for heating it was to see whether the reaction was an endothermic reaction or an exothermic reaction.
 What we found was that when we heated it, it actually, changing from pink to clear, it actually took less time than when we did it at room temperature, so we don't know if it accounts for the exothermic or endothermic, or maybe the molecules are just moving faster so it'll react faster.
 We also did not dilute the milk of magnesia like most of the groups did, so that may have skewed our answers a little as well. It took us a lot longer, and more HCL, to turn the solution clear again.
 [Instructor] Comments? Does anyone think that, so this group didn't dilute. How many groups diluted and added distilled water? Okay, so all the other groups did. (laughter) Do you think that their data would be affected because they didn't dilute, and because you did? What are your thoughts? Alright, Nina?
 We diluted our second trial, and it didn't affect the amount of HCL needed.
 [Instructor] Why do you think, well, from your observations, that's obvious, but does anyone know why? Or think why that might happen? Why would your data not be affected? Or think that maybe theirs was a fluke? And, your data should have been affected by diluting it with water? Alright, Joey?
 Is it because the HCL only reacts with the milk of magnesia? So, it doesn't affect how much water because it doesn't react with water?
 [Instructor] Okay, what do you guys think? Alright, Katie?
 I think it will affect it because the concentration's higher and the milk of magnesia by itself is more dense so there's less surface area, I would say.
 [Instructor] Okay, less surface area. Okay, that's a possibility. Alright, Gabriel?
 I think it wouldn't affect the amount of HCL that would be added, but it will just affect the time because with water, it will take longer for the reaction to take place because there's more volume, and without diluting it, their group just made it straight up so it would be faster for the reactants to go back to pink, and then at the end, it will just turn clear, either way.
 [Instructor] Why do you think it would be faster if they didn't dilute it?
 Because there would be less volume, and the smaller the spaces, the molecules will react faster and have less room to move around.
 [Instructor] Okay, reasonable, yep.
 So, our group kind of did both. We had a control, we redid the same experiment for number one, and then we measured how many milliliters of HCL it took, so if you change the concentration, it does affect the amount of HCL it takes to neutralize it.
 [Instructor] Alright, Michael?
 We diluted it, and it took longer for us to, we added more HCL for it to neutralize, and I feel like if you dilute the milk of magnesia, there would be less molarity, and if it's not diluted, it would be a stronger weak base than if it was diluted. It would become weaker.
 You can't change the strength of an acid or a base because it's based on what, it's by definition. You can't make a strong base weak, but that's okay, Wintel? (laughter)
 In our case we did two solutions, different concentration. The amount of HCL that's needed to neutralize the solution shouldn't be, should be the same, but in this case, the time delay causes the solution with low concentration to take more HCL because during the delay, the reaction, the HCL hasn't still reacted with milk of magnesia yet, and because of that delay, there's more HCL that's needed to compensate for that.
 Okay, so there's a little bit of stoichiometry going on, where the number of moles or the amount, the amount's still the same, regardless of whether, of milk of magnesia, regardless of whether or not you added distilled water or you didn't. So the amount's still the same.
