 And I'm going to look at what number that is and I see that that is Now, your information that you get, we're going to be writing in our chart here. So do you see at the bottom of your page, it has ramp with one book, you're going to write the distance that your car moved. Now don't write 20 inches, 'cause yours is going to be different, okay? You write how far your car went for ramp number one. Okay? Hold on just a second Isabelle. Now, I gave you guys numbers. And the numbers are so that we all get a chance to do every part of this experiment. The number one person is going to set up the ramp. So they're going to put the dictionary and the ramp, get it all set up for the group. The number two person is going to get to hold the car, and let it go, okay? And then the number three person, is going to measure the distance that it went, okay? Close attention (mumbles). Okay, so you're going to all have a job to do. Now this is with the one dictionary. When we do the experiment next, we're going to try it with two dictionaries and see how it changes, okay? But for right now, we're going to try just one dictionary. Are there any questions before we get started? Miguel.
 Like, the first one goes first, and then on the second thing, like you try to set the number one does the second job, and the second person does the number three and the number three does the number one job?
 Yes, so everyone is going to get a chance to do every single part of the experiment, okay? So we don't need to fight over who gets to do the car, and who can get that, okay? Isabelle, question?
 But what if we do the same, each of us what we do?
 Oh, if that's what you get, if you get 20 inches on yours, then you write that down, okay? Yes. Angie.
 When you took... 
 No, we're all going to talk to each other in nice, friendly voices, that's right. Okay, Max, last question, and then we need to get started.
 Are we going to use the rulers?
 Yes, you're going to use the rulers. And I know I didn't give those to the groups, but I'm going to pass those out right now, okay? Can I have you guys please quietly walk with your papers and your pencil to your group? [Background Chatter]
 Who's going to set up the ramp?
 Me. [Background Chatter]
 Okay, you're number two. [Background Chatter]
 Start it in the corner? [Background Chatter]
 It's a meter. [Background Chatter]
 Come on over here. Okay, get your paper.
 No, but watch out!
 Don't do it!
 Awesome! [Background Chatter]
 Okay boys and girls, once you get to your group, you can go ahead and get started.
 It looks farther.
 And this group, you may use this ruler.
 Okay, measure it. One right here, and then here.
 Are you okay? [Background Chatter]
 No, from here.
 From there, there. No, Ms. Sprano said from here. Nine inches. No, 11,11, 11 inches.
 It looks like eight. Wait is, oh no it's eight. Remember what Ms. Sprano said?
 No, she said from the front.
 Actually, I said from the back. Good listening Miguel. So how far did the car go?
 Eight inches.
 Eight inches, okay, excellent. So write down your information. You've got a pencil right here. Okay so the next step, Isabelle, Miguel and Angie. Is you're going to try it with two dictionaries. Okay?
 But number three is going to set it up?
 Look up at the chart to see who's going to set it up.
 So, who's setting it up?
 Um, number two. [Background Chatter]
 Okay, let's figure it out. Okay, now go to your group for a second. Okay now, is this how far going to?
 Yea, 'till we go.
 Well wait a second, are we measuring from the top of the ramp, or are we measuring from the bottom? So, you're going to put the ruler right up next to the edge of the ramp, and then measure to the end of the car. So how far did that car go?
 Five.
 No, it's to the end of the car. So how far did the car go?
 Two.
 Two inches. Now, do you guys think that because you're on a thicker carpet, that's going to change your results?
 It should go up like that.
 Do you think that the thicker carpet is going to slow the car down and make it not go so far?
 Yes.
 Yeah? Would you guys like to move to that part of the carpet?
 Yeah.
 Okay, you can move to that carpet, and see what the difference is. And you guys will have to share that with the class, okay? So try it again with just one dictionary, okay?
 So then one. [Background Chatter]
 Have to let the car go guys! [Background Chatter]
 We're going to try it with two dictionaries.
 Okay, so look at the chart to see who's going to set it up next.
 Oh my God, this is going to be loud.
 We're good Ms. Sprano!
 She said from the very back!
 You set it up. No, I mean, you let go.
 Who's turn is it? You're doing the first one. Who's number three? We all have jobs to do. Who's number one? Okay, so your job is to set up the ramp, which you did a good job on. Number two person, who's the number two person? So Giselle.
 I'm number three.
 No, she was two.
 It's fine, she's number three. So Giselle, you're going to let the car go, and look, Esmeralda is going to measure. Okay, so... [Background Chatter] Excellent. Okay, now put that down. Now which side do we need to start with? Very good. And then we can spin it around there. So now you want to move it over so that you can measure at the end of the carpet. Can you scoot it over some? Very good, so how far did the car go? Seven inches, good. Okay, so let's write that down on our chart. Finish yours. Change this so it's seven inches. Okay, now what's our next step, what are we going to do next?
 I don't know.
 Are we going to try it with two dictionaries? Okay, so now, who's going to set that up? Looks like the number two person, so Giselle is going to go ahead and set up the dictionary, so put one more dictionary on top. Okay, good. Well, number three is going to let the car go. So now it's Esmeralda's turn. So you guys, what do you think is going to happen? Do you think it's going to go farther, or do you think it's going to be closer? When you let go of the car right now, what do you think is going to happen? You think it'll fall down? Okay, well let's see what happens. Woah, did you see how far that went? Okay, don't pick it. Now, wait a second, it's Edgar's turn to measure. So let's see, how far did it go Edgar? So we measure to the, 14. Wow, that went farther, didn't it? So your next step is going to be to do it with three dictionaries. Please go sit down in your group and raise your hand. Let's go sit down at our group. [Background Chatter]
 The car's there.
 15 and a half!
 15 and a half. [Background Chatter]
 15 and a half. Who knows how to write 15 and a half? [Background Chatter]
 So number two would get to measure the distance on this one, okay? [Background Chatter] Okay, so let me see how you're doing here. Okay, well can we try it again? Can we try it again? So, you're on the second experiment. So number three, who's the number three person?
 He is.
 Jose's the number three person? Okay, so Jose get's to let it go. Should we move this out of the way, or should we keep it here? So, are you number three?
 No, I'm number one, but number one set it up. But then see. Oh.
 Okay so, it looks like it's Jose's turn to let the car go. So hand the car--
 No, he sets up ramp.
 Can you go sit down please, and I'll be right with you.
 Got it.
 Okay Jose, try it. It's my car, put it right here and let's see what happens. Okay, let go. Excellent, okay who's measuring?
 Me.
 Okay, so let's measure. Now do we want it, are we measuring with inches or centimeters? No, it's right, we're doing it the right way. Don't worry. [Background Chatter] Did it go farther, or was it closer? [Background Chatter] Okay, so then I have a question for you guys, listen. If we put three dictionaries here, do you think it's going to go farther, or it's going to go closer?
 Farther.
 You think it's going to be farther? What do you think Jose?
 Farther.
 What do you think?
 Farther.
 Well okay, we better check it out. Did you write down your numbers? So for the second one it was 15 inches. Okay? Now, we're on the last part, that means the number three person sets up the ramp. Are you the number three person? So set up the ramp, where's your other dictionary? Okay, so then we have to use the dictionary, okay? Can you let go? Okay it's, oh wow that might be pretty cool, huh? Okay, so Devon it's your turn to let the car go. [Background Chatter] And I like how you're moving all the stuff out of the way. Selena, you want to stay there, or do you want to move? Oh, okay. So who's turn is it to measure? Again?
 No, number one gets to.
 You know what, I think we mixed it up. Now, Selena lets go of the car. And Devon measures this time, okay? [Background Chatter] Did you, okay, so maybe it's Jose's turn. Okay, go ahead. (kids talking to each other) Ooh, look how much it turned! Okay, so measure how far it went. [Background Chatter] Okay, so measure how far it went, let's see what happened.
 Do we move the... [Background Chatter]
 17. [Background Chatter] Try it again, let's try it again. [Background Chatter]
 Okay, let's see, how are you guys doing? You got all yours finished? Okay, good. Okay, well I haven't gone over that. [Clapping] [students clap] Okay, boys and girls, raise your hand if your group had a chance to do all three experiments. All three. Okay.
