 Write at the top of your paper The color that you want for your sugar and the color you want for your salt
 on both of them? Sugar on one, salt on the other
 Yes, because you can make from your sheet two. (group discussions) Now the purpose of these sheets is so you can actually take your spoon Malik, take your spoon and dip out onto that paper. This gives you a better visual of how much sugar and how much salt is in that particular food. Now what's the most important thing about the label?
 Serving Size
 Serving size. Good Aaron, serving size. So that is showing most of these is the container itself. That's the reason we went to snack foods so that you could see how much that is. This also gives you a better idea of how much you eat. Some of you, like Aaron, may eat two or three of these especially if it was Gummies, right Aaron?
 Yes
 It's not Gummies but it's close Okay, so any questions before you get started? Okay, decide who is going to do calculations decide who's going to measure first I want you to rotate those responsibilities around and Devon, what is your question? (group discussions) Remember the personal column is how much you would eat (group discussions)
 [Voiceover] the serving size
 Doesn't matter, your group remember has to cooperate, figure out who's going to do what and just look at responsibilities
 [Voiceover] Just make sure everyone sees how much sugar; how much salt it is That's the important part. On the back of your paper.
 [Voiceover] When it says about 29 grams right here
 What's the serving size?
 Serving size is here... [inaudible] there are four servings in here
 [Voiceover] They would eat half the bag then it would be two servings (group discussions)
So next is the total calories, and it's got...
 130 calories
 total carbs (group discussions overlapping)
 ok so nine grams
 Now when you dip out your salt and sugar try to replace it in the correct bucket we don't want the salt in the sugar or the sugar in the salt. So pay attention to what you're doing. (group discussions overlapping)
 Now remember, you have to calculate what you would eat. (group discussions overlapping)
 [Voiceover] Give me some sugar.
 [Voiceover] 11 grams divided by four. (group discussions overlapping)
 Put two teaspoons on here (group discussions overlapping)
 [Voiceover] Is it sodium?
 Dip it out you see how much See visually how much it is. (group discussions overlapping)
 I don't have any salt. (group discussions overlapping)
 Yes Paul (group discussions overlapping) I want to encourage you that after you done something that's really sugary, do something that you would think would be salty as if it surprises you, how much sugars in it (group discussions overlapping)
