 Consider what you read about organic lettuce and Rosie from Omnivore's Dilemma and from what you're reading do you feel it's worth the extra cost and effort to eat organic? Yes?
 So, for some organics I believe it is worth it and others I don't. Industrial organic I don't believe it's worth it, because for the lettuce in the book Omnivore's Dilemma, they said it takes about ten fossil fuel calories to make one calorie from lettuce, and I don't believe that's energy efficient at all. But other farms, other industries, or other organic farms like Polyface Farms, they use all natural energy, not a lot of fossil fuels go into it, and I think it's more efficient. So, organic like that I believe is better, but industrial organic I don't believe is better.
 That's a good point. I was wondering is somebody could expand on the difference between industrial organic and organic. Phil, if you want to pick someone.
 Eli.
 So, normal organic food, like what started the idea of organic food, was completely different from organic food that you buy at Whole Foods nowadays. Like, what the people originally thought the concept of organic food thought of was like the local, sustainable farm like Polyface Farms, where it's completely energy efficient and they use all natural resources like grass and just stuff like that to feed their cows and other animals. But industrial organic systems, it's pretty much the same as normal industrial food system, except they don't use antibiotics or pesticides to make their food. They still have animal rights... There's still animal cruelty and stuff inside the the factories, and stuff like that. Araceli.
 I agree with Eli, because when I read organic, I thought organic was good. But then basically it was the same thing. Like the chickens, they still got fed corn, but they had an open door, but they were so fat they couldn't go through. Like, why pay the extra money for something that's going to be exactly the same as the other thing?
 I think it is worth buying organic food. Because even though the animals are treated the same, and even though it still wastes a lot of fossil fuel, we save a lot of farmland from being put, like, pesticide and everything on it, so we could have chemical free land. And also we save our water system from being poisoned by the chemicals we use. So, it might cost a little bit more, but it's worth it. Matt.
 In response to, I guess, Eli, it's not exactly the same, there are definitely the perks to the industrial organic system with the lack of chemicals and hormones. But yes, I can definitely agree that it's a very similar thing, it doesn't solve all the problems with the industrial system.
 I don't agree with what was just said, that when you farm without pesticides it's better, because in Omnivore's Dilemma, even though they farm without pesticides, they crowd the ground so much that it destroys the land. So, it's not necessarily better, it just sounds better.
 I just like Simone's point, because I think that a lot of the problems are still there, and even though it might be a little bit better without the pesticides, I think it's still important to eat real organic food. I think that would be the best. Industrial organic is a step in the right direction, but I don't think it's close enough to where we should be with our food system.
 I agree with Molly that industrial organic foods, on the face, are both... They're worth paying for because they're the food that we should be eating, but in other ways they feed into other problems with pollution. If you want the right type of food, you have to create a food system that can sustain a country as large as the United States, but still has healthy animals. And animals that have evolved to eat, only being fed, that is at a cost low enough to feed everyone in the United States like we are fed now.
 I was going to also ask a couple personal questions, since I was talking to your mom about how does your eating habits change, do you think, now that you feel like you're more aware, or...?
 She says that she always bought grass fed beef, and I try to eat healthy, but in the case of fast food, of course, I go and eat fast food. But lately I've been badgering her, and asking her if she could get a grass fed steak. I've been waiting for that for a long time. The corn fed steak that my dad gives me smells bad and it looks bad, so... (mumbles) Anyway. There's nobody asking.
 I don't think organic's really necessarily healthy for us, because humans are still trying to figure out what vitamins we still need, what essentials we still need. Like people are still discovering that plants have certain essentials that we never knew we needed. So, how can we tell organic's good for us if we don't know what organic is different from what we get from normal food?
 I thought Curt brought a good point up too, which is the best organic is just straight from the farm to the buyers, but it is a great point that Curt and Greg brings up which is that that way can't feed as much people as the industrial organic or just industrial food.
 I completely agree with that. It's implausible to try to make what they call beyond organic food at such a high amount, because it really consumes a lot of land and a lot of energy. We read in the Omnivore's Dilemma with the moving the chicken coops so much every day, that's a lot of land for very little meat, and honestly that would not be able to sustain the whole country. Lisa?
 So, I kind of agree with what you're saying, but it doesn't have to necessarily be a few big farms that are completely going organic. If there's little farms all over the United States, then meat can go to those people  around there. It might not happen all of a sudden, but little by little people are going to learn that organic is better. Whether it's more expensive or not, it's healthier for us knowing that the animals... When the animals are not fed on natural stuff, that in turn is bad for us. Ashley?
 I agree with what everyone said, and that the point that Paulina brought up about we're still trying to figure out what vitamins are what and what's good for us. Because I feel like it's more better to spend even just a few more cents, if organic food isn't that expensive, and go to certain places. A few more cents on the local, home grown organic food, because I used to buy meat from the... What's it called? The meat section.
 [Female student] The deli?
 Deli, yeah, there you go. And I used to buy meat there, and I thought it was all fine, you know, whatever, until I went to the doctor one day because I was getting really injured, and she was like, "You're missing all these vitamins," and she gave me all these vitamins to take. And I didn't know that that was missing inside my food, and then I go to the organic section of the supermarket and it's not even, like, vitamins that were missing in the meat, it's vitamins that were missing in the drinks that can be found in organic food. For example, like the naked juice has these vitamins already included in there, just because it's, like, naturally grown and organic. So, I was willing to spend the extra dollar for my health. So, I feel like if people realize how important it is for your health, that scare will wake them up and they'll be able to spend the dollar.
 Okay, well, I agree. I think that it's worth the extra cost for organic, because, like, in the book it said when we buy organic food, we're voting with our forks, and we're voting for the type of food we want. And if we go organic, then the producers will think that most of us want organic, so they'll start growing more and selling more organic food, so that it might become cheaper in the long run.
 I personally don't really care. (students laugh) Like, if it's cheaper, that's cool, because if it has pesticides on it you can just wash it off. And animal's rights are nice, but they're going to be killed anyway. It's like, they're all going to die anyway. They're going to die, so... Michael.
 I like it. (students laugh) And yeah, I mean, even though organic's good, we still have a lot of cheap food that feeds a lot more people that have lower income. So, we might not be, like, the healthiest nation, but at least we give an opportunity to feed every single person in the United States. So, I kind of like that. They don't have to worry about paying high prices for food, even though it's bad for my health. And even if it is bad, I could just exercise. (students laugh) So, I think it's a personal responsibility to watch what you eat. So, we should be open to that.
 Even with the industrialized food system, we're still not feeding everyone. If you go to like, the Appalachians and stuff like that, you still have kids that are starving every day because their parents don't make enough money to buy even the cheap food. So, I think that it's not that we need to focus less on the cost of everything, and just figure out a better way to produce food and grow it, and to make sure that it gets where it needs to go. I think we need to worry about cost later on, and try and focus on a way to do that in the short term, so that in the long term we can feed as many people as we need to. Lisa.
 I see how you brought up the Appalchians, but my question to you is is it more important to worry about issues here, where it effects us, or would you find it more important to focus, like, worldwide? Like, you could focus on problems that people have outside, but, like, wouldn't you (mumbles) focus on start here, make sure that we have what we need first, and then branch out?
 I think that with that, like, with a lot of people who get stuff locally... So, if you're saying locally like, are you talking, like, Chicago?
 Don't you think it's better to start locally and then... Like we get better locally, and then we get better statewide, and then we'll go on until everybody has enough money to do this, or their food, everyone can buy their food.
 I think so, but you also have to take into consideration that even if we do something in Illinois, that doesn't guarantee that other states are going to adopt the same policies. And I think if we focus on doing something for United States, and worry less about the other countries, even though, politically, it might not be the right thing to do, worry less about the other countries at this time. But I think we need to take a step back and focus on just fixing as much as we can on a whole, and then going down into the smaller levels and seeing, okay, how can we make this better on a local level? Chris?
 I think that we can't really make it perfect, like the way Polyface Farms is, because of how the cities are laid out. Because the cities are too big to have farms in reasonable reach of the people there. So, I think what we have to do is have this industrial organic, which still is, I mean, a lot more worth it, because it keeps the biodiversity in the soil, and I read in the book they said something like that the size of the state of New Jersey was, like, a dead zone at the end of the Mississippi River and the Gulf from all the pesticides and fertilizers that flow down. And that's (mumbles) problem that we should focus on.
 Well, I agree with Teresa that we should start only in the US, because we can't just make a generalization that other countries are using corn and are eating unhealthy just as we are. We only know that the US is eating unhealthy because, according to Omnivore's Dilemma, King Corn, and Food Incorporated, the problems are only occurring in the United States. So, if we want to solve this problem, we should start from the origins, because we started using corn massively, creating problems, and stuff, not because of other countries. Well, maybe because we imported corn from Mexico and they dominated out other corn types, so we started using corn. But we should start focusing on more of what's the problem over here, instead of other countries, because we have to solve our own problems first before we become worried about other problems, maybe. Yeah.
 I was going to say that it is worth it to spend the money in organic, because even if it's just a little bit of farms here and there, people seem to be willing to travel the extra mile just to get that healthy piece of food. Like in Polyface Farms, people came from hundreds of miles, I think, or 100 miles, just to get their healthy chickens or the healthy food. And with Jerry, I wanted to say that... Well, nevermind. (mumbles)
 Okay then. So, I remember Gabby said how we should be focusing on making as much food as possible for everyone in America, and that's the issue we should be working on. But that's really what the food industry does, like making the most food possible. They pretty much put everything else aside, besides mass production. They don't really care about animal rights, or worker safety, or anything like that. They just put as much work as they can into making more food, and like Gabby said, people in America still can't afford this food that's cheaper than it's ever been in the past. So, it just shows that, really, we can not go back to just normal farms, because there's no way just natural farms like Polyface could ever sustain a population as big as America. Like, we kind of dug ourselves into a hole. Yeah.
 Okay, so what do you think we should do then? If we've dug ourselves-- (students laugh) If we've dug ourselves into this hole, even though if we're going to be producing less food that's better quality, I agree that is better, because then you're taking the animal rights into consideration, the workers' rights and everything. But then either we have to figure out a way to change how people eat, and so people are eating a bigger variety of food, or somehow figure out a different way to be able to feed everyone. Because, at the end of the day, either we're going to have a lot of people who die because we change this, and we change it too fast, and we're not ready to adapt to it, or we can do it slowly and try and figure out ways so that everyone somehow survives. Eli.
 Okay, well, I think that we should really just follow the model of, like, France, or some other country in Europe or something. Because they have a way better... People in France are so much healthier than people in America, and they don't eat nearly as much food. They still aren't starving, most people in France aren't starving or anything. So, there are countries, it's just not left them.
 Okay, I don't know if this makes sense, but if they have, like 20,000 chickens in one pen, do they have to feed them corn? Like, what's wrong with mass production, but making it a little healthier? Why can't they just give them something else that's maybe not all corn, maybe half corn, or half corn to little corn? And then, metaphorically speaking, this totally reminds me of Hitler, and, like, how he took over all the people and made them work to death and everything, and that's like what they're doing with the animals. They're just working them to death, and they have no rights or happiness whatsoever. Deja?
 I think the answer to your question is that most people just want money, so they'll buy whatever's cheapest and pay low wages to people just so they can make a lot of money. I think that's the answer to your question about why don't they just choose another food instead of corn. I think it's because of money.
 But also consider, what about... What about the industrial organic? Doesn't that address this whole problem of how the chickens are fed? Even though they're raised in coops?
 [Male student] They're still fed corn. (female student mumbles)
 Molly.
 Okay, so I think that it's a really good idea that Matthew brought up a while ago, that the industrial issue, it can't really be solved by using beyond organic. I think we've moved on from that. We can't really go back to beyond organic, because we wouldn't be able to feed enough people. And then just to Adam's point, I don't think that we're not producing enough food. I think the problem is that the people don't have enough money for the food. So, I think that producing more food wouldn't really help.
 [Female student] I was going to say, everyone keeps talking about mass production and that view would feed everybody. But if you think, we actually waste a lot of food too. That's actually important. I think we saw a picture or something, all of it gets thrown out every day, or they have ads on it on TV. If we're so worried about feeding everyone, why don't we eat better ourselves, and stop buying so much food we don't actually eat?
 Well, either, whether you guys want to change it locally to outside or outside to inside, I like the idea that you guys think about spreading the idea. Whether it's taking France's ideas and taking it onto ourselves, or just ourselves spreading it out. Because (mumbles) so obnoxious, they would go out to McDonald's, my family, and be like, "Do you know what that eats?" And then just start talking. We're like, "Shut up, don't tell me what it eats. "I'm going to eat it." And now my mom asks me, she's like, "Is this good?" And then I read it, I'm like, "Yeah, "it has this and this and this." And now she turns to me and, like, asks me should we buy this, should we not? So, I think I have changed a little bit at least, having been
