 ... the fact that he couldn't do it because he didn't have enough money to do it. What would you do in that situation? Would you try to get money?
 Isn't this kind of different because we're all girls?
 Yeah, but...
 If it was a boy, and he was the one who didn't have money...
 Do you feel like the chapters that we read, do you feel like you could tell what Pip was going to be doing?
 Kind of. You could tell that he was becoming more stuck-up; wants to change himself and not be around the poor people.
 Are you doing the discussion director? Did you do any questions in regards to his-- did you have any direct questions with regards to the text?
 Yeah. One of them was like how did Pip change from the beginning of the book to where he's at now, like his character and basically how he acted.
 What was the question I missed, Brianna, where you said about the girls? I didn't hear the question. I just heard your response.
 His was, in Chapter 29, when he is becoming part of her marriage, he was just like, how would you feel or whatever. None of us really had an answer because the situation is different, like it's different for the guys... She's the one who's like the rich girl.
 Who's the recording one?
 So, on page 128, paragraph two, that's where Herbert tells Miss Havisham's story. That's important because it kind of explains why she is the way that she is. He explains that you meet Miss Pocket, and then she's kind of like- he kind of explains why she's kind of crazy.
 All right. Chapter 8 was interesting because he was home from war and in the camp. He started to treat people. He treated them like they were all heroes.
 And he shared the cigarettes with him one time.
 He shared the cigarettes with them and was even [Inaudible].
 When he was amongst the Russians, he didn't care. They were struggling to survive. He felt sorry for them, which as a connector, I've connected it to- I don't know if you guys have seen "Tears of the Sun."
 I have.
 And "Avatar." In "Tears of the Sun," he wanted to go and try to rescue people, but he got stuck behind enemy lines [Inaudible], like they're struggling people too trying to gain their freedom. And then same thing in "Avatar." Paul kind of reminded me of how he was behind and he was with the Russians, but he thought that they weren't as bad as he- the military was the only bad part about them. Civilians, he felt sorry for them, that they had to go through all this. They were being killed. Their people were being killed. And they were actually just regular people trying to make it. Everybody was dying because they used all this stuff in the military and they weren't caring about the civilians. [cross talk]
 The prisoners?
 They were [Inaudible].
 They had to trade whatever they had to get like a couple supplies to the refugees.
 He started to wonder like why are people higher up, people he'd never met forcing them [Inaudible].
 Yeah. [cross talk]
 So, then this whole section made me think about that. So, I thought that could be like the controversial part to talk about. This whole section...
 Which whole section?
 The one you were just talking about.
 They're talking about magic.
 Yeah. They're talking about the magic and being invisible and then he [Inaudible] and scares them away.
 It really showed a struggle between Antonio internally with religions.
 Yeah.
 In one he had keys and then in the other one it was totally crazy.
 Yeah.
 That's my next section, is that dream. I think it's page 119. That whole dream is really important because it's like, it kind of highlights what I just said about how he might be the next [Inaudible] person or whatever. He goes to this dream and it's kind of the same thing he's been facing through the whole book- his mom's side versus his dad's side. And Ultima kind of comes out and is like, "Well, you are both. You have to find a happy medium." It's all within the world of his dreams. And then page 139...
 One part that I thought was really, really important was his brother at the brothel.
 These two chapters, I think they're kind of jam-packed. I just kind of picked stuff that would be good to talk about. And then page 139, paragraph three, they're talking about how the group can be buried in the casket of time. I just felt that was informative and something that we should look at. Just pretty much the whole funeral.
 The funeral was good styling.
 Like, I don't know, these four chapters...
 There was no part where you didn't [Inaudible].
 It's like, read these four chapters.
 Exactly.
 After I read the chapter, I wrote some questions down. The first one is what did the contrast between the golden carp and the black bass- how the golden carp made the black bass jump. And his missing of the bass symbolizes maybe like a win for Abel...
 The golden carp story was just very interesting.
 The whole controversy is that he's Catholic, but part of him really wants to believe in this whole...
 It's not like he wasn't interested in it, but he still didn't believe. But then he still respected the story itself and the respect of the carp.
 It made me feel like the golden carp would bring it up. Could Antonio... [cross talk]
 It made me feel that Antonio's struggle between his mother's beliefs and his father's, how his father was like, on the corpse-strewn shore.
 I remember there was something like when you're in the ocean, it's the same water-
 It's like Ultima came in.
 She was like, "You don't pick one. You're both. That's it."
 You can't just choose one path.
 You should be a priest cowboy.
 I think the way it was portrayed was like because of the way he was brought up, it was kind of showing the negative. [cross talk]
 She's brought up. She's not there, but she's brought up too much.
 I feel like she's a goal though, to be like be some kind of spirit type thing.
 He hopes that she's like someone who's not fake.
 So, I guess he's trying to like make things work with everyone else and see, like, what his relationship with other people and to finally be able to call a [Inaudible].
 I feel like he compares all of his relationships to her. He has that standard.
 Didn't he point out like all the flaws of her? [cross talk]
 That was just creepy. I was just like, "Poor guy," to have all of these weird, awkward dreams.
 I'm going to say foreshadowing. I'm sticking by that and saying Ultima's going to die and he's going to be the new... I'm sticking by that, and that's foreshadowing.
 Look at you go.
 All of those things are foreshadowing or are they just predicting something that happened in the past?
 Most of them. Well, I think the one where, remember where he went into a brothel in the one dream? Right. Exactly. So, I think that most of the dreams are foreshadowing.
 They're not showing directly what happens, but hints.
 Basically I'm a beast.
 We don't even have to read the rest of the book because I just gave it to you.
 Because we know what's happening.
 I said also, in chapter 14, the bad dream, what do you make of it? Is he seeing the sinners as deserters that all witches are being spun out and that he needs to step forward? Or does the golden carp have like stronger power? What do you think it symbolizes?
 I think there are good witches and there are bad witches. The bad witches are the ones that should be, like... [cross talk]
 That's Antonio's issue as well. I think he's kind of figured out that there's something different about Ultima. I think he's kind of figured out that- he's kind of just like, "Oh, they're evil and she's good. If she's a witch, then she's evil." So, it's kind of this contrast of can a witch be good? It's kind of like the question of what he wants to believe versus...
 It kind of relates to the Civil War and the Africans and their personal stuff. It kind of relates to that. The white people, they didn't want to believe that they're intelligent and they're friends. He doesn't want to believe that a witch can be good because he's been told otherwise.
 And he's a Catholic and witches are evil.
 I think that the golden carp symbolizes perhaps the rebirth.
 I think the two most important themes, symbol figures are the owl and the carp. [cross talk]
