 At first, we put only tap water in it, and then we all of a sudden changed it.
 So, but there's still tap water in with the oily water.
 So, you think that's why the control got messed up because it had too much
 [Voiceover] Well, that's not variables changed.
 [Voiceover] my only reason.
 What's the other reason?
 My other hypothesis for the control cup not growing was, like... the seeds were duds.
 [Voiceover] Were your guys's the oil ones? That one's not yours?
 [Voiceover] No. Ours is the one that's all grown.
 Oh, why don't you go get your cup and show people?
 So this is oil? Okay, well the oil one did grow really fast and all of a sudden, it died, it looks like. Kind of. So, like at first, it was normal with that thing, and then, well--
 [Voiceover] I don't understand that chart.
 Yeah, me neither because it looks like--
 It looks like it didn't grow, then it grew really, really fast, then it went down. Super (mutters).
 What happened was it grew, and then it over-polluted, and then it just died. Looks like that.
 Well, like. ... (students laugh)
 Well, like, what I don't get is, I see the other oil one, it seems like the oil one is growing bigger than the other ones.
 [Voiceover] It just, like, suddenly grew all of a sudden. All the oil is the same with the control, which you have all of a sudden, all of a sudden, also these diagrams. Also, in the control diagram, that went back down to zero centimeters.
 I don't know.
 Yeah, this chart might have messed up. (boy mutters) Because that means both these plants die.
 And then the control regrew.
 [Voiceover] Yeah, it doesn't make any sense.
 [Voiceover] It doesn't. (students chat)
 It turned white, and then it died and turned brown because on my chart, it grew point... it grew ... it grew 0.14, and then 0.14 again, and then 0.04, so like alive, dead, alive and stuff.
 When it grew the second time, did it grow or did it subtract?
 The second time, I think it died, and then the last time it just kept on growing, but the first time it started growing, it grew, second time it grew one centimeter.
 What did you put in to help it grow? What did you put in it to help it grow?
 Oily water.
 So, did the oil or the manipulator control grow more?
 The...manipulative one (mutters) grew more because it grew and then it died.
 So, why do you think it did that?
 Because, like, I, what I thought is that it was too much oil on it, and then oil gets on the leaf, it like, it helps the plant grow or something. Just killing other--
 Doesn't the plant feed off the leaves? So, the oil got spread on the leaves, and then it's feeding the oil, then it died.
 Look at yours compared to mine because yours is way more controlled ones than ours does because the only one we had was the experiment plant. (students chat)
 Do you, I think the reason why the vinegar or the acid rain made it grow because, like, acid is good for you, and it's mixed with water, so it's not too bad for the plant. But I think it got way too much acid, and acid actually eats things. It kills it, and that's why I think the plant is all dead because, like you said, Nolan, it did grow, because acid is good for us, but yet when we have too much, it dies. So, that's why I think this plant is all shriveled over.
 I agree with you because acid is part water, and that's what rain is, but there's a little bit of acid so water's good for you. But acid, it doesn't grow, it's not good for you, so--
 [Voiceover] Well, actually, it is good for you, but not a lot.
 I think you're--
 Maybe just a little bit of water in it more than acid rain, and then when we kept spraying the acid rain on, maybe it got too much acid rain. And then the acid rain overtook the water and died. So, it like decreased by a lot. That's why I think it's just like the Red Bull because Red Bull is, like gives you really much energy and then you just crash without any energy. See right there? Just like Red Bull.
 [Voiceover] It increases and then decreases.
 What'd you think, Misha?
 Well, yeah. I think like what you said, Nolan, because the regular plant grew just fine, and then that, the experiment grew, like, good, and better than the regular one, but then it, like, the acid overtook the plant just like Nolan said.
 What else I noticed about my control plant, it started big at first, and then it decreased in size. Then it got bigger, so it's going off and on in size. So, it actually did kind of better than this because at the end, it did better than that one and the last opposite ...
 It like, died, after the second one, it only stayed for a couple of days or a couple weeks.
 Yeah, but it was only to a point it was living because, when I did my second observation, it was still kind of full, but it was broken on the side. So it started falling into a point where it fell in and got buried in the oily water, basically. (students chat)
 It died.
 My actual skin and everything, the plant grows faster, but it also dies faster, and I figured from like the oils on my hand--
 Why do you think it did that?
 Because the oil on your hand-- Because the oil on your hand may not be the exact same thing as, like, oils in a car, but oil still has the same base.
 But how does it make the plant grow faster if you touch it with your hand?
 I don't know. Instead of wearing gloves, maybe it's just the stuff inside of the oils and everything, but it grew faster, and also died faster. Like, the plant that we have now is dying faster, but this one, since it has water normally and everything, it's healthy, and stayed big the whole time. But the other one is like that (mutters) but it died.
 If you have, what you were saying earlier, when you have oil on your hand, and then it was, you polluted it with oil, don't you think you polluted that one too?
 No, well, like, it's, my whole point is that it speeded up the process.
 [Voiceover] What speeded up the process?
 Like the oil, when I plant a bean or something, when I plant bulbs for tulips or something, and I touch it with my hands instead of my gloves. Then it actually seems, I may just be paranoid, but it grows faster, and then my mom put hers with gloves and it didn't grow as fast. I don't know the depth of that part or something.
 I don't get what you're saying. Are you saying that you have a magic touch and you just make plants grow faster? (laughs)
 No, I think it's just the oils of your skin.
 So, what would the oils in your skin do for a plant? Like the oil for your plant here?
 Is it the same like the oil that we used?
 Like, it didn't make them healthy, but it just made it grow faster because this one took a little bit longer to get bigger, but the other one-- Show me your data that suports that.
 This?
 [Voiceover] Yeah.
 [Voiceover] What's your data that supports that?
 The ... These ones.
 Yeah, the one the data that supported it was that, oops, is... (clears throat) is it went with the control. It already had grown, and it was after a week, and ours still hasn't grown. And it was growing at 0.16 centimeters per day and then the next time, it was growing 2.7 centimeters a day.
 [Voiceover] So, what does that tell you?
 That it was growing a lot faster, but it wasn't necessarily growing as efficiently.
 Okay. What do you mean by inefficient?
 Efficient.
 What do you mean by efficient?
 I mean, like, it grew faster, but it wasn't necessarily healthy for the plant for it to grow so fast.
 So, was there other evidence that you would use that would prove that it wasn't healthy?
 Yeah, because the leaves now, they're all gross and blotchy, and they're dying and they're crunchy and not as soft and smooth as these. And they have a shine to them because of the oil.
 What, did the rate of growth confirm that?
 At first, it was kind of spiked for a little bit, and then it started going back down, and now it's dying a lot faster than the natural plant because these plants, it grows in a steady period of time. With that, it grew really fast, and now it's dying really fast.
 [Voiceover] So, what conclusion did you get?
 That oil still makes the plant grow, but it's not necessarily healthy for it.
 Do you agree?
 Yeah, because me and ... Because my group, my experiment, when we did this, it was growing super fast, and now it's like dying and stuff. And we think that the oil has a chemical in it that speeds up the process of the plant growing, but then it speeds up and of slows down the process of the plant dying because ...
 On the grass a little bit, and the number of leaves will only be like two, and then it shrivels up and died. And then the color would stay light green, and kind of brown, like how it is right now, and then my data was, according to my graph, the acid rain plant grew more than I thought. It grew 25 centimeters, but it started to die because of ... (students chatter) (students chatter) It turns light brown, and started to die. The leaves increased from two, all the way to six leaves by the end.
 Okay. My question was, what would the effect be if I changed the water to salt water, and I put, if I change the water to salt, I predict that the plant will stay the same height as the control plant. I predict a number of leaves will stay the same as the control plant. I predict the color will be white-ish gray-ish. My manipulator variable is water to salt water. According to my data, I was correct because the height was the same, and the number of leaves were the same. The data shows the height of both plants were zero centimeters and the number of leaves was zero on both plants. The rate of the growth was zero. On the salt water, there was crust on it, and it was ...
 [Voiceover] Restate that so that Jessica gets it, and see if Jessica knows.
 And then like, we were saying, Olivia was talking about maybe how it looks burnt, and then, like, you know how water, it attracts a lot of light, and so people get tan.
 [Voiceover] Yeah.
 [Voiceover] Faster, and then so, maybe the shine for the oil maybe, it attracted more of the heat from the light, and it burnt the leaves, so.
 [Voiceover] Like, the glisten from it.
 [Voiceover] Yeah. Maybe that's why it looks all burnt and...
 Because it reminded me of when you see the old movies like how it's a burnt reel,
 Piece of paper.
 Something like sands off in the reel of a video, and you just see a hole get bigger on the burning screen. That's what it kind of reminded me of...
 Because it has a brown wrinkle around it.
 And then it's dark, and then it's kind of brown and crisp, so that's what it kind of reminded me of and that's what made me think of it.
 Yeah, and then, how I thought of the idea of it attracting the light and heat was how Olivia said that when you're in water, it attracts more heat and light to you, so maybe that's how. So, that's how I got the idea of maybe that's what happened. So, do you have anything to add, Jared?
 No.
 You, Jessica?
 No.
 Okay.
 Okay, so I think the reason why mine didn't grow like before how the salt would have absorbed the water. Because when Mr. Kelson sprayed it, all of the salt right here, you could feel it. It's all stuck to the top, so the water can't get down to the soil and all that. So, it can't grow at all. (students chat) (students chat)
