 One eighth plus one eighth is [inaudible]
 Oh, one eighth, okay. Is she adding one eighth together a bunch of times? Where do you see that? Can you come up and show us?
 You have to get seven of them.
 Okay. Katriana could you add that number sentence up above your picture also? So I like how you're all thinking while she's writing this. There's a couple different ways we can represent this. I think Anielli and lots a groups had their hand up were right that she did. I can see she took seven pizzas and divided it into eight pieces for eight people. And I also see where, and when I talk to Katriana, she said, "Well I got one eighth, plus one eighth, and one eighth, and one eighth and one eighth. How much is that gonna add up to equal? She's got one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth.
 Seven eighths.
 Seven eighths, okay. And that's how much pizza she told us. What about seven divided by eight? A bunch a groups kept their hand down after Anielli shared that number sentence. But it's not a complete number sentence until we can finish that equation. What would seven divided by eight come out to equal do you think? Talk at your group for just a minute again I think we're just a little bit unsure. [Background Chatter]
 What are you thinkin' for seven divided by eight? [Background Chatter] Let's come talk it over with this group. You check with this group, I'll check with this group. What are ya'll thinkin' up here? [Background Chatter] Well, what do you see in her representation? [Background Chatter] You see how many pizza's? [Background Chatter] Okay, seven pizzas.
 Eight people.
 And eight people. [Background Chatter] Did she divide those seven pizzas into eight groups? Okay, so we've just gotta figure out how much then, that's gonna come out to equal. I'm not sure. Talk about it as a group. You can draw it on the back. Okay. Yes, thank you, ma'am. Okay, thank you so much for talkin' with your group. What did you or someone at your group think again? If we've got seven pizzas divided by eight people. Katia?
 We've got 56 divided by eight because there's 56 pieces, and it's kinda [inaudible].
 Okay, so you noticed there's and it's cut into...
 Eight.
 Eight slices. So you were thinking something a little bit differently. Savannah?
 We, I thought the same way except I thought that it was gonna be 56... Divided by seven. because... Each one of them is shaded in, and they're all going to [inaudible] eight people.
 Okay.  Let me ask us all this. I love that we're relating this back thinking about some of our math facts, and how that can tie in and help us. But what did Katriana start with here? What do you think the first thing she did was? [Inaudible] What did she do, Steven?
 Drew seven or eight pizzas.
 Did she draw seven pizzas or eight pizzas?
 Seven.
 Seven pizzas. Is that what she did first? Okay.  She drew out her seven pizzas. So we wanna know, or we need to know that that's what she started with. What did she divide those pizzas into?
 Into eighths.
 Into eight. We see she cut 'em into eight pizzas. Brennan.
 I did [inaudible] I was thinking either 700, or seven tenths.
 Okay.  So we're thinking back to fractions. I think since we don't have a definite answer, we don't need to yet. Let's leave this kinda open-ended, but I'm gonna circle it so that we remember to come back to it. So we've gotta a great number sentence that one thing Katriana did was add up one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth, plus one eighth, and she got seven eighths and we're gonna keep thinking about... I saw a bit of agreement that seven pizzas, she divided by eight people. But we need to figure out, ladies, how much that would mean each person gets. So put a big arrow. So as we continue let's keep that in our mind. Okay, thank you. Can I have... The person who put this one up in black. Faith, was that you? Will you come tell us what you did, and what you think the answer might be here. How much pizza each person got.
 Well, I knew there was eight soccer players, so there were seven pizzas, so I did seven pizzas. Then I divided six of 'em up in to fourths, and then I numbered 'em all. And then when I got to eight I started one, two, three, back over again when I got to another eight, I did it again but then I realized that there wasn't enough, or more, so I split the last pizza up into eighths and that equals up to eight people.
 Okay, and that equaled up to eight people. So how much pizza do you think each person gets?
 Well, I think that each person would get at least one fourth, and [inaudible].
 Okay, so let's write this up here. So you said each person gets, let's put it up in black. How much? Like let's say person number 1. How much pizza do they get? Will you show us?
 They would get one, two, three... They would get three fourths.
 Okay.
 And then one eighth.
 Three fourths and one eighth. Like this? Okay, do you know how much that is all together?
 That would... That would equal up to four [inaudible].
 Okay. So let's think about this one for a minute. Do you have any questions for Faith about how she figured this out? Okay, I think she did a great job explaining her picture. So she showed us where each person gets three fourths plus one eighth. Will you talk at your group? How much is that? How much is that total? Thank you, if you wanna join a group. Good explanation. [Background Chatter] Okay, group what do we think?
 Four twelfths.
 You agree with her four twelfths? How did you come up with four twelfths?
 By adding those two together.
 How did you add them together?
 Three plus one would equal four, and then four would be the numerator because you added the two top numbers. And if you added the two bottom numbers, it would equal twelve for the denominator.
 Okay, so is there a picture, or is there a way that we could show this with pictures that that would come out to equal four twelfths? [Background Chatter]
 See, on the back of your paper once will you draw a representation of four twelfths? [Background Chatter] How come?
 Because. I thought that if the denominators were different, we couldn't add them up directly.
 Oh.
 So, we tried to get the denominators the same.
 What do we call that?
 Equal to fractions [inaudible].
 I like that your thinking back to remember your vocabulary.
 I tried to tell Katia that if it has a different number on the bottom then we're supposed to add the [inaudible] on the bottom to--
 I don't know. Have we learned to do that before?
 Well no, but I just thought about it, and I've been practicing.
 Okay. So if we haven't learned it yet we've gotta think about how are we gonna figure it out, right? Okay, so keep thinking. It's okay that we're debating between a couple different answers just tryin' to explain to each other why you're thinking four twelfths, and why you're thinking something different.
 I thought it was [inaudible] because... Whenever you add it up [inaudible] And the denominator [inaudible].
 Okay.  So I understand where you got the four slices. But what size are those slices? Would be my next question. Because we wanna make sure every soccer player gets the same amount 'cause I would be upset if I didn't get as much pizza as you did. I like pizza. [Background Chatter] Okay. [Background Chatter]
 Okay, well it says four twelfths, so we're shading four--
 Do you have 12 pieces there?
 We have one, two, three--
 Okay. If I can have your attention back. I know some of you are still discussing, and doing a great job. But I wanna make sure that we've got time to get through the rest of our solutions before we're out of time for the day. Hailey, if I can have you close the door again for us. And can I hear what a couple of your groups came up with? I heard three or four different things as I was going around. Three fourths, Hannah said each person gets three fourths of a pizza and one eighth.
 Faith said.
 How much is that? Yes, I'm sorry, Faith said since ya'll sat next to each other I still mess that up. Three fourths and one eighth. How much did you or your group think that came out to be, Nathan?
 We came up with seven eighths.
 Seven eighths.
 Because when you take three fourths, and then you take another circle that shows one eighth, then you divide the three fourths into eighths, then add the [inaudible] the ones that used to be three fourths and that equals seven eighths.
 Can you come up and show that to us? I think, I think I followed in my head, but did you all have trouble making that picture in your head?
 Yes.
 A little bit, yeah. Can you show us? You can draw it here, or over here we've got lots of room.
 Nathan, you're right. [Background Chatter]
 Shhh. Okay, let's see what he does. Okay, can you step to the... step to the side so everybody in the class can see you. There you go.
 And then if you divide that into eighths, then you add one of the eighths then you add this over here. It comes out to be seven eighths.
 Can I just get in.. agreement or disagreement somebody who had shared with us. What do you think about what he just did? I saw him draw three eighths at one pizza, and one, or three fourths of one pizza, and one eighth of the next. And then I saw him cut this one into eighths. How many eighths was three fourths? When you cut it? Six eighths. And then he put one more eighth over and seven eighths. What are you thinkin' about that, Brazy?
 I agree with him.
 Why?
 Because our group said that we know that four eighths is equal to... twelve fourths is equivalent to seven eighths, and his picture we can see that it's two and when he was workin' it out we could see that it was right and so I agree with him.
 Okay, Brennan?
 I agree with him, but I have a different explanation.
 Okay.
 One fourth is equal to two eighths, but then you take--
 Oh, I'm sorry. Let me write this as you're saying it so we can follow it. So you said...
 One fourth is equal to two eighths.
 Okay.
 So... We multiplied the three and the numerator with three fourths.
 Okay.
 By two, which comes from the two eighths and it would equal up to six eighths plus that one extra eighth it would be seven eighths.
 Okay, so you said three fourths is equivalent to
 Six eighths.
 Six eighths, okay.
 And then just add the other one, seven eighths.
 Okay, so then you did six eighths, plus one eighth, equals seven eighths, like that? Okay, can I just see a quick, on your remotes, do you agree or disagree with Nathan and Brennan? So, A is I agree. B I disagree, or I'm confused.
 What's confused?
 We'll just do A and B. A is I agree, I understand, or B is I disagree, or I'm confused. How are you feeling right now about what Brennan and Nathan just said? They're two different explanations. I just wanna see right now, do you agree or disagree with what Brennan and Nathan just said. And again they were saying that three fourths, plus one eighth is gonna come out to equal seven eighths. And they each kinda explained it a different way. One with words and one with a picture. Need a couple more people to vote if they agree or disagree. Number three, number eleven we need a vote from you please. [Background Chatter] Where is remote number three? There it comes. Okay. What do we, what do we know by looking at this graph? What do we know by looking at this graph? Thomas?
