 Exactly. Right. So, what do you all think about the fact that this is written almost sort of journalistically? I know you're the big newspaper man and everything. What do you think about that?
 That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the growth of the poem overall. The first passage, it's almost not objective, but it kind of states what's happening. It doesn't actually say what the author is thinking. As the poem grows and goes on and goes to the next passages, it becomes more poetic and more descriptive and it's more of the author's point of view and the author's stance on what's happening.
 Nora, what do you think about the poem so far?
 I thought it was a good, like, utilization of the message. I'm taking African American history this year.
 Okay.
 We've been talking about the slave trade the last few weeks. So, that first part, we were talking about how they were like [inaudible], the sickness.
 What are the specific lines that you think best describe the sickness and the death and everything?
 "We have jettisoned the blind to no avail. It spread. The terrifying sickness spreads. It's claws have scratched the sight from the captain's eyes." The slaves were all tied together in their own [inaudible] so the sickness and disease could spread through them. But also, the slavers, like the white people on the ship were also susceptible to disease.
 That's where they got the idea of whites becoming more like the blacks because they're in such close quarters that it's inevitable almost and the fact that they are holding themselves above them, superior as civilized, but they're still acting acts of barbarism is very much a historical principle.
 So, you really think that there's a moment of transformation in this poem where the whites, who are theoretically the real barbaric people become like the blacks, who they think are savages.
 I don't think it's even a point of transformation. I believe that the author, Robert Hayden, is talking about this as it has been. So, this kind of opens in maybe a stress when they're sailing on the slave ship and they talk about this and it's like there's all sorts of imagery throughout this that implies that these blacks are, er, these whites are becoming like the blacks.
 What's your favorite line that shows this, Nick?
 "Standing to America, bringing home black gold, black ivory, black seed." Now, I especially liked the middle part of that, black ivory. Because ivory is usually white.
 Of course. Yes.
 Yeah.
 So, you have the juxtaposition of black and white.
 Yes.
 I think the lines after that, "Deep in the festering hold thy father lies, of his bones, New England pews are made, those are altar lights that were his eyes." Jordan, what do you think the about this religious connotation?
 Well, seeing that I'm not too familiar with the Bible-- Judaism and Christianity are similar-- but in these two paragraphs that you were just reading, I saw a big contrast between the glory of taking back these animals, these slaves and making the best of them in the new world. Between that and the evil that they're really bestowing upon the slaves-- "Standing to America, bringing home black gold, black ivory, black seed," is kind of glory and that contrast between evil, "Deep in the festering hold thy father lies, of his bones, New England pews are made, those are altar lights that were his eyes."
 They also kind of need a religious figure throughout this voyage because throughout this we see that they're going through a time of spiritual crisis. "What port awaits us, Davy Jones or home? I've heard of slavers drifting, drifting, play things of wind and storm and chance, their crews gone blind, the jungle hatred crawling up on deck." It's like they understand that they're becoming uncivilized and they're trying to find a way to change this.
 To justify their actions.
 Yeah.
 That's what they need, a justification for their actions. So, they say God is with them and everything is okay.
 And you have that sort of anaphora of the hymn, that "Jesus our Savior pilot," throughout this entire thing that sort of brings and invokes the God into all of this so that it's almost as if to me, they're looking for their justification. They're looking to justify the horrific actions that they're putting out.
 Which is ironic because these are often, these spirituals are often sung by slaves to get through all of the times of turmoil. So, it's ironic that they're claiming that God is on their side as a justification for the enslaving of blacks.
 I think it's also ironic, though, that the blacks are the ones who receive the justification from a lot of the whites in the new world. At the end talking about John Quincy Adams, he says it was completely justified what the blacks did when they revolted and attacked the white slavers. The suffering that they had been enduring...
 And that's like the moment of irony.
 Yeah.
 The slavers are saying, "How paradoxical indeed that you whose wealth, whose tree of liberty are rooted in the labor of your slaves should suffer the august John Quincy Adams to speak with so much passion of the right of chattel slaves to kill their lawful masters..."
 "...And with his Roman rhetoric, weave a hero's garland for Cinquez." This is what I want you all to think about. Think about the historical connections here. John Quincy Adams, one of our founding fathers, fourth president of the United States was ultimately the man who got freedom or found freedom in court for Cinquez and the other slaves that were on the Amistad, which is a ship that, of course, being discussed in here. Think about these historical connections. I shall return. All right, group. What's going on?
 We're talking about a poem.
 You're talking about a poem? I'm going to talk about a poem, too.
 What a coincidence.
 I know. Isn't it coincidental? What's going on? What are you all discussing so far?
 We're looking for the marrow part.
 You're looking for the marrow part?
 Yeah.
 I'm glad you all have your "Beloveds" out and everything. What really interests me is the fact-- I think we have a real instance here where the 60 million or more to whom the book was dedicated. This is their story, is it not? What do you all think? How can we connect our reading of this poem to our reading of "Beloved?"
 In the second part, in the last paragraph, it says, "The fever is melting down my bones."
 Yes.
 Right now we're connecting that to Stamp Paid, who at some point had said that he was tired in his marrow, as in his bone marrow. We're looking for the page right now.
 Okay. Found it.
 Okay.
 And it's on this.
 Whoa. What is that? Read the passage to us.
 "'My marrow is tired', he thought. 'I've been tired all my days, bone tired but now it's in the marrow. It must be what Baby Suggs felt when she lay down and thought about color for the rest of her life.'"
 Okay. So, let's connect what you say in this stanza, you have, "I'd be trading still but for the fevers melting down my bones." What is it about that stanza that you want to connect to this allusion?
 We thought that her fever is melting down-- we thought that it was, it's pretty much the exact same connection because it's bones going into the marrow, so the outside going into the inside. "The fever is melting down to my bones," it's just taking a different way.
 And to get more than a physiological point of view here, the marrow is where? Where is the marrow?
 In your bones.
 It's like the core. So, Raphael, when we're suggesting that the marrow is being corrupted in some way, what does it mean for us?
 It basically means that the entirety of the whole of the being is being corrupted.
 Okay. So, in essence, then, from a symbolic point of view, just like in "Beloved," we can relate this to the poem. What kind of corruption do you see here?
 For me, it was mainly corruption of hypocrisy.
 Okay. Hypocrisy in what context?
 Mainly that the enslavers honestly believed that they were in the right, that they were different, like this passage, this short passage here. "It sickens me to think of what I saw, of how these apes throw overboard the butchered bodies of our men, true Christians all, like so much jetsam."
 Yes.
 And then at the very beginning, they're talking about how they're throwing slaves overboard.
 Or even when the slaves decide to, "Lost three this morning leaped with crazy laughter to the wading sharks, sang as they went under."
 Yeah.
 So, there's this sort of weird juxtaposition of the whites being thrown over by the savages or the apes at the end versus the slaves who choose to jump over at the beginning. Laura, what do you think is going on in this particular context?
 With all of the jumping off board, it's a true escape to eternal freedom, I guess if you believe in Heaven. The thing that confuses me is I understand why the savage blacks would throw the whites over, obviously death and more of a pain, but it also ends their misery in a way of staying on the ship with the slaves getting the sickness, the blindness and having to wait, I think it's like another three weeks before they come to port. So, it's really contrasting and interesting how it goes back and forth. This poem focuses, I think, on both sides, on black and white.
 Yes. It really does illustrate both. Which do you think is best illustrated, Laura, the black side or the white side?
 The black side is really, I don't want to say common, but it's similar to everything you hear about slave ships--
 And the slave trade.
 ...and the slave trade. So, I think it's interesting that Hayden decided to also put in the white side of it because you don't really focus on what came of slavery. Even though it was a horrible thing, on the last page here it says, "That you whose wealth, whose tree of liberty are rooted in the labor of your slaves," I thought it was interesting because I often fail to make the connection that through the slavery, we actually were able to grow as a country and through our liberty first, we were able to bring the slaves out eventually through the Civil War.
 Jordan, continue.
 I was looking at more of the religious side of it as with what you were just talking about. Here it says, "Their moaning is a prayer for death."
 Yes.
 "Some try to starve themselves." And then you go down one, two, three, four stanzas later, it says, "Jesus Savior pilot me over life's tempestuous sea. We pray that thou will grant, O Lord, safe passage to our vessels bringing heathen souls..." It's not so much praying for death, it's praying and knowing that Jesus can lead them to freedom forever and allow them out of...
 Who is praying for Jesus here, Jordan?
 The slaves.
 Really?
 That's how I took it.
 Okay. Did anybody here take it a different way?
 I took it as the sailors.
 Exactly. Good. Not that that's-- I think you're on to something in the sense that the religion of the slavers was eventually forced upon the slaves themselves. So, I think that they could be. So, I think there's a real sort of duality there.
 For this point in history they evangelized--
 Evangelized.
 They had already--
 Evangelized. Yes. It's a hard word to say.
 Africa. I know the Dutch, for example, had already been there.
 So, historically speaking then, Raphael, when you say it's the slavers that are the ones that are praying, what's ironic about all of this?
 That they're so much in the wrong and they don't see it all and that kind of hypocrisy.
 And they're looking for justification for their actions. Speaking of justification, what I want you to think about now for a few minutes-- I'm going to talk to the other group up front here-- why is it that the white side of things is all reported to us literally through almost a journalistic style? It's all quotes. It's all basically kind of like it's from a ship's log. So, think about this and I'm going to be back to talk to you about it. All right, group, what's going on?
 It's all going on.
 It's all going on? Okay. Tell me. What have we discussed?
 Everything.
 Everything? Tell me more.
 Well, we've discussed about how in this stanza, "That there was hardly room 'tween decks for half the sweltering cattle stowed spoon-fashion there; that some went mad of thirst and tore their flesh and sucked the blood. " That was talking about the capture of the Africans.
 Yes.
 Who wouldn't be so thirsty that they wouldn't tear open their own skin and drink their own blood.
 Which is just crazy in terms of the suffering.
 Yeah. And how that shows that in some way they were driven into some sorts of savagery. And yet in the next stanza, it talks about how the crew would lay with the--
 The Guinea Rose?
 Yeah.
 "The crew and cabin lusted with the comeliest of the savage girls kept naked in the cabins..." Okay. Well, let's talk about it for just a second. We have a real juxtaposition of pleasure and suffering. What do you think?
 Yeah. It's a real contrast between describing these people as sweltering cattle ripping their flesh open and then it goes right into how the crew, like, would sleep with these women.
 Exactly. They're fully taking advantage of them. Imagine being kept naked in a cabin for the whole journey.
 Yeah. It's a very big contrast because they are calling them animals.
 So, what happens after their lust? In the stanzas right before we begin section two of the poem, what details are we given about what happens to this specific crew?
 They abandon the ship.
 It goes up in flames.
 Exactly. So, it's basically set on fire and then what happens?
