 [Teacher] What are you noticing about it compared to these two?
 This one's light brown. These are all dark. So I think this one's not getting enough water. So we should water it.
 What's happening because it's not getting enough water?
 It's like drying out.
 What's happening to the seed?
 The seed is dying. It can't grow.
 And the seed's gonna die.
 Yeah.
 Because what's the first stage of a life cycle?
 And you have water in it.
 It's a seed.
 Yeah.
 And then it sprouts.
 But on this one all stems are dying.
 Oh wow, that looks really dry.
 So which one are you measuring?
 We're measuring water.
 Okay, let's measure it.
 Let me measure it.
 Okay, let's measure it and let's record how tall it is.
 I don't know how you use it. (cross talk)
 Yeah, almost four inches.
 Centimeters. Here, I'll measure it.
 Seven and a half centimeters.
 Can you hold it, yeah?
 Maybe if you hold it.
 Oh no, it came out.
 It's okay.
 It's alright we'll just--
 Ours came out, and then it's still good.
 Just hold him up.
 It's six centimeters.
 Okay, let's check.
 Wow, it's growing two times enough.
 Keep it there and let's see. Let's see if the rest of your group agrees.
 Yeah, I agree.
 That leaf is up to six centimeters.
 Okay, so what in, in a week, how much has it grown?
 It's grown three.
 Three centimeters.
 Three centimeters, yeah.
 Three centimeters.
 Okay, write and record it. So that's parsley. Write, write. (background talk) Why do you think parsley is doing so much better than roma tomato?
 Because the tomato is like, a tomato has one thing, and parsley has the same thing and they come out.
 What do you mean the same?
 I think maybe because parsley.
 Because parsley has, a rose, it's easier because, because a tomato has more time to grow, because it like, it's the kind of vegetable that has...
 Which is actually even drier.
 Can you guys help her out? Can you help her out?
 I think, well I think that's growing better than the roma tomatoes.
 Is tomato a fruit?
 Day one.
 Like it's growing a fruit, that's what the tomato is. Like a vegetable, it's the fruit of the plant.
 Yeah.
 That we eat.
 But I think that, what I think it's important is that we grow this.
 Yes.
 Yes, they'll grow at different times. Once they grow, it'll grow fast.
 Yeah, we started this one, planting faster, right? We started this one two weeks later. Do you think we need to water the tomato more though?
 Yeah.
 When you look at the parsley and feel, feel how wet that one is. And it's doing so well.
 I know.
 Compared to the tomato, maybe we need to water more?
 Yes.
 Is this parse? It's the parts?
 [Voiceover] No it's the gender.
 [Voiceover] I think they need to get more sun and water.
 Okay, so Abby's measuring her tomato.
 [Abby] I did it.
 [Teacher] What do you guys want to do? Do you want to do the top of the leaf or should we do the top of the stem?
 Top of the leaf.
 [Voiceover] Top of the leaf. The leaf is part of the plant.
 [Teacher] Okay, so you're putting it down, all the way down?
 Down and round.
 It's four.
 Okay.
 It's four.
 Alright.
 Four.
 So every single time when you measure this plant, are you gonna measure the top of the leaf not the top of the stem? Is that what you're going to do?
 Yeah.
 It started four sessions ago. It started four sessions ago. (background talk)
 This one started two weeks before. This one. Let's look at the measurements, and how much for growing, can you compare these two? What are some things that you notice?
 I notice that--
 It's grown three and a quarter centimeters. Everything else, won't be able to have. (mumbles) two more centimeters.
 G plant.
 Can you tell me which one's growing quicker?
 This one are pregnant.
 Are you sure about that?
 Yes. Actually, maybe because...
 This started out, and this one not so here before.
 Okay, and we started this one when?
 We started this on, I mean two weeks ago.
 Two weeks after this one.
 Yeah.
 So, even though this one was started later, what's happened? It's growing.
 More.
 Faster, taller, yup. Okay. Why do you think, and you guys even noticed that it was dry, and it's still growing faster.
 Yeah.
 So, should we keep water, should we water it more and see what happens?
 Yeah.
 What do you want to do?
 I want to, want to, since there's no more seeds in there, because we took two of them out and then the other one died. I think we should grow more seeds in there and then water it and see what happens.
 Okay, go ahead, you can plant it. And there are sometimes seeds, they just won't germinate. They're sometimes just like a bad seed and they just won't, they won't grow. Maybe that's what happened to this one too.
 Can I go through and bob it?
 But in the inside of it, it looks very dark. But the outside of it does.
 So maybe it's not as dry as we thought.
 Yeah.
 Now we have to take measurements again.
 We'll just see if that helps.
 There's only this one left.
 Let's look at this seed. What do you notice about it?
 I know for, we came from last time when we grow the parsley, this seed is way bigger than that parsley seed.
 [Voiceover] These are not dead.
 [Teacher] How about compared to the sunflower seed or a pumpkin seed?
 [Voiceover] It's really small. And things can use the lines smaller maybe, because they're smaller things, or like a sunflower.
 Oh, so you think maybe the seed, the size of the seed tells you how big the plant is going to be?
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 On that, some of the tomatoes are as big as that, or bigger than that. Sometimes the seeds are, how they start out are smaller, but sometimes the shape of it, sometimes determines the shape of it sometimes, but others not.
 You mean the seed tells you the shape of the plant?
 Sometimes, yeah.
 It could.
 What about a flower or something?
 Flowers seeds are different.
 They all look different.
 No.
 So is that always the case?
 No.
 But some of your classmates have plants that are gonna grow bigger. And so maybe we should ask them about theirs and find out if their plant is growing faster, or slower compared to these two plants, than yours. And maybe we can see if the seed size makes a difference. Alright, you guys can get online. Yeah, you can go ahead and water it.
 One in here, and one in here.
 And then I want you to go to that website and start your graphs when you'e done. You might want to water it a lot more.
 Let me try.
 And then over it.
 [Voiceover] We finished watering our plants.
 [Voiceover] Do we each get a computer?
 We need help. When we type into trying capitals in it, it deleted our numbers. So.
 Okay.
 We didn't know what was wrong.
 Well you have your title, Plant Type. Let's be more specific because you're not doing all the plants. What plant are you graphing right now?
 Swiss chard.
 And?
 Kale.
 Did you measure them already?
 Yeah. And then we drag the numbers but then they don't...
 I think it's because of all that room.
 James, where is your measurement for swiss chard for today?
 Right here.
 You want to record that.
 Swiss chard. (clicking computer keys)
 And kale was...
 What was kale again?
 Seven.
 This height look correct?
 No.
 What are we missing? Do you guys notice?
 The up need.
 Oh, I notice.
 There you go, alright. Okay, so what's going to be your label for your bar graph? That's the one going along the bottom.
 The bottom, the plant height? How high the plant reading?
 Are you gonna, what are you gonna graph then for your bars?
 Hmm.
 What do we always look at when we're thinking about our graphs? We always go back to our data table, right?
 What are we gonna do instead of getting ahead or not?
 Seven centimeters for kale.
 You're gonna have to put kale right there.
 I know. It's just, that was the big plan. I think I'm on the tail now because...
 Okay you have, what's this one?
 That was eggplant.
 Okay. And this is swiss chard?
 Yeah. Well here's that, why don't you measure that? You haven't measured it yet.
 About five centimeters.
 Did you agree Walt?
 Yeah, about five centimeters.
 Is that what you got too?
 Yeah. (lots of background talk)
 So why are we gonna have a graph for just swiss chard, and just kale? Or are we gonna have a graph for both together? What would be easier?
 Both together I think.
 Should we put it together? How would we do that? How would you merge that?
 I think like both should have their own bar, like in the same graph.
 I think so too. So which plant do you want to graph today? Are you gonna do swiss chard or kale?
 [Voiceover] They really needed help.
 [Voiceover] Let's do kale.
 Let's look at kale.
 [Teacher] Okay.
 [Voiceover] What's kale?
 Here's the kale.
 [Voiceover] Which one are we measuring?
 James, what did you get for the height for kale?
 Seven centimeters.
 Okay look, see if Andrew gets seven.
 Yeah, about seven.
 Okay. And what was the height of it last week, James? So Andrew knows.
 It was six centimeters.
 Okay, it was six centimeters. So just put six centimeters here. There you go. Okay, so lets fix this, let's just make it kale height. Or grow. And then, what's this, what are you gonna put at the bottom? Look at your table.
 [Voiceover] The height of kale.
 Is that gonna go along the bottom?
 How tall it was, like in day one and day two.
 Let's look. What were the labels for our table?
 Date and measurement.
 Okay, so that's what we're going with.
 So the measurement will be on the bottom and the date is on the side.
 Do you guys agree? James? You think that's right? Okay, we'll try it. Go date and then go ahead and type measurement. Should we have a unit on it since we're talking about measurement?
 Mhmm. (lots of background talk)
 Okay. So the whole point of--
 And what's in row one?
 One, four, 13?
 Okay, write that. You're gonna put the date there? Will, would you like a turn?
 Mhm.
 Instead of doing commas, if you're gonna write it like that, you're gonna put a dash in between. I'm gonna have Will, Will type this time. We'll take turns. So type in the date. (mumbling) Okay, and then what would go here under the? What are you gonna graph? Like what's gonna be the bar graph part?
 Six centimeters? No, no, the height was the, another beam.
 So type that in.
