 That's what I want you to do to prove to me that you understand that beyond just telling me what, you know, maybe the book would say. Beyond just a definition, right? If you're going down the right path here and you know what that is, I see you're making a nice Venn diagram here, comparing and contrasting, that's great. What I want you to do is on this sheet here, cause this is what you're going to need to present to the class in a couple minutes. Put down these thoughts, these words that you've got. You can even draw your Venn diagram on here. But, explain what that means. What does that mean, bubbles floating inside the lagoon? What does that mean? It's escaping off the top. When we think of matter, what do we actually think of in our heads? Conceptually we're thinking of a chunk of matter, a beaker of liquid, so there's some space and what else? (students chattering) And what? (students chattering) So matter has mass and volume. What's matter made up of? (students chattering) Okay. Atoms, molecules. If it helps you, you can decide okay let's think of this in terms of water. Just so it's a known right? Okay, good. Yeah that's a good way to do that. So, draw some pictures. When you say it's escaping off the top, what does that look like? Okay, so try to get it into some visuals.
 [girl student] Okay.
 I'll come back. (students chattering)
 Matter, like I don't really understand.
 [Teacher] The definition of heat?
 Yeah.
 [Teacher] Okay, so what is heat? (student's chatter drowning out boy)
 [Teacher] It's what? (students chattering)
 Heat is like the transferring of energy from a warmer thing to a colder thing, right?
 [Teacher] So you want to separate what something is from how it behaves? So you're saying heat is the transfer of energy. Transfer is how it behaves, right? What is it?
 [girl student] It's just energy.
 It's energy, right? So heat is a form of energy, and you're absolutely right. It can move around in the environment, between systems, in and out of the system  (inaudible). So let's say you've got a beaker of water sitting on the counter and it's hot, right? It's sitting in a cold room. What do you expect to happen? What will happen to the temperature of the water, for example?
 It will (inaudible).
 Okay, so the water will get colder and the air right around the beaker will get warmer til they level out?
 Yeah.
 [Teacher] Okay, equilibrium, good. So, you understand that heat is energy. And you understand that it can move around. So the question here is how does adding heat energy, for example, matter cause changes to temperature and changes of state? So not that it does, but how? So, what you need to do is think about your ideas about matter. What is matter?
 Something with a mass or volume?
 [Teacher] Occupies space, has mass or volume. You know. You just said it.
 Okay.
 [Teacher] Yeah, see you know. Okay, matter has volume, it takes up space, right? And it also has what?
 [Student] Mass. The property of mass. Do you guys have any kind of a conceptual model of matter, like if you think of it... Obviously this is matter right, but if you zoom in on that is there a way that you think about what matter is? Do you guys think of matter as being made up of smaller things?
 [students] Yes.
 Okay, atoms, molecules. What would happen if you had one atom and you add some energy to it? (students chattering)
 Remember this isn't rights or wrongs, this is what are you thinking right now so that you can make sense of this. So what if I have two atoms and I add more energy to them? What if I have hundreds of atoms and I make them all move faster? (students chattering) Well, I mean that's what I'm asking you guys to think about as best you can. How would that occur?
 We said if the molecules have more energy and they move faster then that leads to...
 And they get warmer. Oh, that's the same thing as adding more energy right?
 Then they move faster and that leads to changes from liquid.
 [Teacher] I would say add some pictures. I think you guys are thinking some good thoughts here about the structure of matter, what it's made of. So why don't you draw me some pictures of what that would look like in, say something that is changing state. Maybe take a chunk of something solid and then draw what you guys see, as being a series of steps, getting it from here to here. So start with a lump of solid matter, okay something like that. Take it all the way to a gas.
 [Students] Okay.
 How do you see that matter.
 [Students] Okay.
 Okay, alright, let me give you guys a couple minutes to do that.
 Start with an atom, and build like a box...
 [Teacher] So folks, I want to take a couple more minutes and then have you guys share your thoughts with each other. (students chattering)
 [Teacher] Theorizing is good. Why don't you draw me some pictures of what might be happening here? Yep? Did I take your pencil? I'm sorry (laughter). Okay we have a pencil thief. So, you're saying there's some specific temperature in which all phases can exist at the same time? Water would be evaporating, ice would be melting, and vapor would be condensing. So, I just want you to tell me a little bit more about your theory. How would that work in the environment in terms of the physical conditions that the ice and the water and the vapor would be under? Yesterday, we talked about some things that affect phase, what were they? What was one thing that we said affects what phase of matter something is in? Okay, temperature. Anything else?
 [Male student] Pressure.
 Pressure maybe so is there a way that you can describe to me in terms of pressure and temperature, and the matter itself, how that would work? Okay, you may need to mentally zoom in on matter. What is it, what is ice, what is water, what is gas? If you zoom in and we look at it beyond just a chunk, what do we see on the "inside"? What's it made up of at a very small level? (students chattering) Does everybody here see matter as a collection of atoms or molecules? Like you can visualize that? So bring that in here. If you do that then show me how your theory would apply to that. Try. Okay?
 [Male student] Okay. How's that sound? Okay a couple more minutes. (students chattering) Seems like you guys have gotten your thoughts wrapped around this, and you're working on presenting it? Okay. (students chattering)
 [Student] How am I supposed to do this?
 Oh god, I can't draw cups.
 [Teacher] Remember you have to explain to everyone what you're drawing's showing, so it doesn't have to be perfect.
 Oh, okay.
 Don't worry about perfection. You're gonna get to stand up there and say this is what I drew. And they just have to believe you.
 [Student] Okay, that's how bad it's gonna be.
 [Female student] Okay, so there's like the water.
 [Female student] I think I have the difference between the molecules. (students chattering)
 Okay, so that shows that, that's gas and liquid. (students chattering)
 What is the big red arrow?
 [Female student] It's like going up out of the liquid--
 What's it?
 [Female student] The molecules.
 Okay, molecules.
 [Female student] Yeah, that's what this is supposed to be.
 So the only thing I would like for you guys to add to your explanation here is something about why, like why or how. What are the factors in the physical environment that are allowing or not allowing the things that you're drawing to happen? (students chattering) That's up to you, what you think is making... I think that's quite good actually. That explains it to me really well. The things that you think are having an effect on what's actually going to or not going to happen.
 [Female student] Like this amazing flame?
 Like that amazing flame. So you might want to label that or make sure that you explain that.
 [Female student] Label it F-L-A-M-E. (students chattering)
 You've vibrated, those are actually quite good vibrations.
 [Female student] That's our gas.
 They're awfully close together. These are closer together here than they are here. Is that something that you intended?
 [Students] No.
 [Male student] There supposed to be really spread out. (students chattering over each other)
 It's up to you what you're going to write. I'm simply asking you a question because it seems like between liquid and gas they got closer together.
 [Female student] We didn't mean to do that. I can draw more.
 What do you think? (students chattering) So, we've shown them closer together. Do we want to revise this or do you think it doesn't matter? (students chattering) So they could be closer together?
 [Female student] They could be closer together as long as they're moving more.
 Okay.
 [Female student] So I think being like spreading out and occupying all space available.
 So if you're thinking that, you should include that somehow, and it seems like then you and Katelyn, and Ignesia's have different ideas about this. And that's important to acknowledge because those are two different things so we want to think about... What are you doing? Oh, you're adding to it. So, I hear Lindsey's saying that you thought they'd be more spread out, occupying more space and I hear you guys saying the spacing of them doesn't really matter. So that's worth thinking about, because that's two different ways of looking at this. That's two different ways of looking at this. Anyway, we don't need perfection right now. We need your initial thoughts, but somewhere I'd record that discrepancy. I would record here that you're still thinking about that issue. You think one thing, you guys think another. That's important. So you guys, I think I'd like to have groups... Don't worry if you're not totally done. I would just like groups to kind of explain what they've got so far. And we're going to go in numerical order. So I am going to ask everybody to come back to the tables though, and give your poster to one group member. Let's do that now. Don't worry if it's incomplete. This is a work in progress. Come on back to the tables. Don't worry if it's not finished. You get to explain it. And we're gonna keep these around so you can add to them. Come on back to the tables.
 I count two.
 Alright, so group one, I'm gonna have you guys come on up and hang up your poster. You guys let's load towards the front of the room so that we're all closer. You don't need all your stuff, just come on up and sit a little closer. Let's squeeze in, in all these front tables. (students chattering) Yeah, you guys are gonna explain a little bit to us of what you're thinking was. So, everybody come on up as close as you can. Let's squeeze in at these tables. Let's get a couple people here, let's get a couple people here. Pull a chair on up. (students chattering)
 [Teacher] Come on up. Somebody come sit here, somebody sit here. So, we've only got a little bit of time left and I want every group to have a chance to tell us a little bit about their thoughts. You guys may, on your pre-think sheets, take some notes. Remember this isn't about right or wrong. This is about how do we think we understand this system right now. And this is all leading towards trying to understand it more thoroughly and better and correctly by the end of the unit. So, their question, the first one is how does adding heat energy to a sample of matter cause changes of temperature and changes of state? So, you guys tell us a little bit about your thinking here?
 Okay, so we were thinking that something about adding heat would have to do with the boiling point and the freezing point. And we were also just listing facts that we knew that would probably help us determine about our question. We were thinking about specific heat. The equation for specific heat. Also, we said based on the specific heat of the substance, an amount of energy will raise the temperature by a certain amount, and we thought that was important.
 And it varies for the substance because each substance is like a difference between the heat. So if you add one it will raise one gram of a different substance by a certain degree, and then a different substance by a different amount.
 And we also thought about how solid, liquid, and gas, that it has to do with the change of space.
 And the solid, they're like locked in place but they're still vibrating a little bit. Then, if you add more energy we think it goes to a liquid, where there's more freedom of movement, but they're still sort of contained, and then in a gas.
 And in a gas the molecules will be occupying all space available and moving faster. And they're not like moving in a certain direction.
 What questions do you guys have for them, or comments about what they're thinking?
 Why would different materials have different specific heats?
 You don't have to know the answer. Does anyone have thoughts on that? Guesses? Maybe they're different what?
 [Male student] Different types of material, I mean substance. (students mumbling) (student chatter)
 So I think that maybe they have different specific heats because the atomic structure is different. So they can kind of collect heat differently.
 How does that sound to folks, reasonable? Is it true that atoms bond in different ways for different substances? Okay, so maybe that's something worth looking into as we study this and see why that, why that physical property of specific heat, why isn't it the same for everything?
 [Female student] And so we were actually still thinking in our gas drawing here, because you can see that we drew all the molecules, really close together compared to the solid and liquid I guess. And we weren't sure whether or not in a gas they could move freely. And it doesn't matter how spaced out they are as long as they can, they're not stuck in one space like solids are. They can just move wherever. Or whether they have to be more spaced out and so...
 [Female student] Didn't occupy the whole space.
 Do you guys have thoughts about that? What they're saying? Do you guys understand the point Katelyn's making? How far do they have to be to be a gas?
 Well I think that that's actually a lot like ours because we were thinking about pressure...
