 Love the many questions that you're asking. Asking questions is a great way, especially if you're wondering something. Feel free to ask it, even if you go in a little bit different direction. Also, the more you reference the book, you can give us some things going on in "Brave New World" and the more specific you can be, the better that helps us understand somebody actually connected to the book and maybe how it's connected to them. So two things to be thinking about. But if you give examples, the more specific you can, of real world examples also the better off. You guys are doing a fantastic job, though. Talking, having a natural conversation, letting each other speak and all that. So, continue with the next question.
 Are we doing that on here?
 What's that?
 Are we doing what we're supposed to in here?
 Yeah, and my outside people, ya'll are doing fine continue with whatever you want to put on here. As long as it's related to the conversation, obviously.
 Ya'll want to talk about Bernard & John now?
 Yeah.
 Absolutely.
 Alright, how do these characters show a variety of ideas about individualism and conformity? I'll just kind of start out. Here's my answer, I kind of said that they were like, the Russians who wanted their blue jeans. They knew what they wanted and they kinda went for it. And in the end, society pretty much pushed them back into their place. And was like, "No, don't stand up and rise up against us."
 Well, I would say, I see a similarity between, like, Bernard and John because they both had individual ideals but I definitely that John was a lot stronger in his beliefs than Bernard was because I think about how Bernard had, at first, he was all individual and he had these individual beliefs and then when he, when they got in trouble, kind of in a way, all three of them, with the uprising and all that kind of stuff. He kind of went back on what he was saying. And John, he stuck to it, like he actually did something about it. When he actually kind of protested and he was able to go back to being an individual. And he went into doing his own thing, with his own beliefs. So, I just feel like John was a lot stronger in what he believed throughout it than Bernard, who was kind of allowing people to look at him, put on him, worried about what other people thought about him and all that kind of stuff.
 That's true. Cuz like, whenever Bernard was more of I guess a weirdo, he does always, like, question society and why everybody acts the way they do. But as soon as he started being popular, he started bragging to Helmholtz about how, like right here it says, "And I had six girls last week: one on Monday, "two on Tuesday, two more on Friday, one on Saturday." So, as soon as he became just like everybody else, he started to like it far more and it mattered much to him that people like, people did what they did, like not explicit relationships and everything. So, you're right, John was stronger than Bernard.
 I don't think John ever conformed, he stuck to his beliefs pretty much the whole time.
 Yeah, he always stayed an individual like, he made sure he didn't conform.
 Was Helmholtz conformist or individualistic? Because he did a lot of the same things that, you know, normal people do but he also read as an idealism at times. (background chatter)
 I think he's somebody who he conformed to what he had to, just to get by. But at the same time, he had his own thoughts and believed what he believed. I just don't think he really stood up for what he believed in.
 So we're (background chatter)
 Yeah, I think so. It's almost like it's almost like a fair weather friend. He did what was best for him, to keep him going got hit and suffered trouble.
 I feel like, I don't know, maybe I'm crazy but I thought Helmholtz was like, reminds me of, this is stereotypical, but he kind of reminds me of like an old professor, you know? He, like, just like goes to work. Helmholtz has, like, good thoughts about stuff but then he didn't like, live the life.
 Wasn't he some sort of,
 He was like a top guy,
 professor. A psychologist, or something?
 He was a scientist. (laughing)
 Alright, so kind of sticking on that topic. What about the books and how they, nobody really read how they kind of, all of the books related to, I guess, individuality and the whole world, what life was like before (bell rings) was locked up. (bell rings)
 I can say the same, John was reading Shakespeare and how Shakespeare is all about, like, love and tragedy and there's like sorrow and there's also, you know, the aspect of love with "Romeo & Juliet." And how the people didn't really, Helmholtz would, his job was reading it to them and he started laughing about it because he was trained not to. So, I think if people actually read about it, you know, the feelings and how love is supposed to be. Then people wouldn't go along with how their relationships would be because they'd wanna, maybe wanna experience falling in love with someone or having that one person would cause a lot more problems with that knowledge along with seeing how people, how there's tragedy. People are becoming sad and how in the New World people are always supposed to be happy and everyone's getting along. Then in these stories, there's like love conflict and everyone is fighting and it would cause problems because from that, people could form their own individual problems and then they start to have their own individuality and form opinions and start asking questions, which leads to a lot of things.
 Books are they pretty much written to express those emotions in which the whole state is trying to block up anyways? That was why they're there.
 So, the book, do you think that the books are kind of what drove Bernard to be a nonconformist and then as he got away from reading, and he started conforming back into society?
 What I think happened, cuz they were saying, I think he was like bipolar or something and everyone else was like (inaudible speech) something. He was shorter than everyone else and, I think, he was already kind of like put aside 'cause they were saying that they think he had alcohol given to him as he was a baby so that made him weird. So, all along, he wasn't like everyone else. So, he wasn't a, like, no one accepted him for who he was but whenever he got famous, or whatever, people began to accept him. (inaudible talking)
 Huh?
 He wasn't able to conform, is that what you're saying?
 Yeah, I don't think he was able to conform because no one accepted him for who he was, except for Helmholtz.
 I think if someone else was in his position, like read, even like saw a book, they probably wouldn't even try to read the way he did. They were so used to not, I don't know, not having books. I don't think the same thing would happen to somebody else. It kind of reminds me of, I don't know if you guys have seen the movie, "The Book of Eli"? How, the entire time, he's trying to hide the Bible because that one guy wants the Bible because he wants control over everybody. Because like, if he has, like everything in the Bible, he could like tell people certain things and they would just listen to him so he could be a master. Like, in this book, how everybody, like the Controllers just want control over everybody and without books, like, I think it's just another type of their control.
 That's a good example.
 Also, if you think about it, present day, a lot of people don't even read books anymore. They mostly know that they can (inaudible speech) and you can watch the movies instead. There is also technology where you can learn about something without even actually having to read the book. So, do you think in a way, that's kind of like the same way of eliminating, how they did in the story and how they eliminate books and there's more technology is like a weakness? Today, you know, we're all about technology so we eliminate more books and there's more movies and more technology.
 Real quick, I wanna throw in one scene that I want you guys to think about, also. You just brought up a point about if people in the world today saw these books, would they even know what to do with them? What would they think about them? We do have a point in "Brave New World" where someone does see a book that isn't used to seeing these type of books and responds to it. When Helmholtz looks at the Shakespeare that John has. So, what did you make of Helmholtz's response to Shakespeare? And what do you think that maybe suggests about people's attitudes in the World State? Especially since, the Helmholtz would represent, I guess, an enlightened view point in the World State. You remember the scene that I'm talking about?
 Yeah (background chatter).
 Yeah, he started off by laughing at it and didn't, later on in the scene, he kind of hid the fact that he had read it and that he knew what was going on?
 I'm just wondering where it all
 It's page 183. (bell ringing)
 Page 184 says, the second paragraph, like third or fourth line, "Helmholtz said listen to the "scenes of the world first meeting with a puzzled interest." I mean, I guess being the enlightened thinker, Helmholtz is kinda curious about it, and wanted to know more. But at the same time, he had that conformity which was kinda scaring him away from it. Cuz he didn't want to get in trouble, I guess.
 He doesn't really seem to understand what's going on in "Romeo & Juliet" because at the bottom of page 184, same page we saw him laughing about it because he didn't understand why the mother and father are trying to force the daughter on someone she didn't want. So, I mean, it just kind of shows how different things were.
 I guess that goes back to the differences in society between then and now. For now and the future.
 Like to do the last comments about John or Bernard comparing and contrasting?
 I come up with something that didn't really get mentioned John, the reason he's an individual is 'cause he was born, he was like literally, born and grew up on the reservation. Bernard, the reason he's an individual is because of his physical stature. So, Bernard is an individual because of physically, but John is different because of who he is. He was born like that, so that's what makes, they're two different people in individuality standard. And that's why, I thought that Bernard was so easy to go back to conformity, because the only thing that made him different was his height. And that's why John couldn't because of who he was.
 I thought Bernard was the person that John would be if John had been born and raised in his World State where Bernard had. The only thing that made John different is that he spent so much time on the reservation where everyone's different. They value individuality.
 You had some good ideas, just to kind of wrap up with that last question. Something to think about also, you guys kind of hit it on this, essentially what we have is two characters in Bernard and John that both do not fit into their communities. Right? And the world is saying everything is designed to fit exactly, and if you don't fit, then you're removed from that situation. And, the Savage Reservation, you are basically shamed out of that group. Now, that's the way John, he's trying to interact but because of his mother and because of his birth, he is shamed out of it. But notice whenever John goes to the World State, and Bernard takes him and becomes a celebrity because of it. All the sudden, Bernard is very happy to be part of the World State. So, once Bernard can actually conform and gain advantage from that type of society, he's more than happy to continue on in it. John, though, being the way he is, he's never had the opportunity to conform to any kind of society and he still has that shame culture inside of him that he continues to live by the whole time he's in the World State, right? So, that's something to think about too, is not only are they isolated when they are born and different. Then what happens, when all the sudden, one of them can conform and can be a valued member of that society, which John sort of is, but it's more for him being strange and weird and exotic, then it is him being a person and being brought into it. Guys, that was a great first half. What I need you guys to do in the center circle is go ahead and log in to your computers. Outside circle people, jot down any last minute ideas you want on your paper responses. And then in just a minute, we'll switch. (quiet talking)
 So, now we're taking notes, as well as having the competition on there?
 Correct, and did that go ok for outside folks?
 Yeah.
 It was ok to do both?
 We can still take notes while we're on the inner circle, right?
 Oh, sure, absolutely.
