 Some of you are ready to print, so I wanted to go through the actual printing press process today. Some of you might even be ready to try that today. If you're not ready to try it right after I do the demonstration, you can go back to your etching or engraving, and then by tomorrow, you'll be able to run it through the press. Before I do that, I wanted to share something with you that's a little exciting, and the fact that I actually have a relative who was a professional engraver. My grandfather was an engraver. He started in the 1930s and '40s. After World War II, he was part of something called the GI Bill. Does anybody know what that is?
 Oh, I do.
 Yeah, what is it?
 They pay people to go to college.
 Yes, exactly. Yeah. After the World War II veterans came back from war, the government paid for them to go to college. And he went to a college called The Art Students League, which I was just talking with Alex about, and he had an extensive education in figure drawing and he chose the trade of an engraver. I'm going to pass some of these around. These are his actual engraved plates that he lent to me to show you. You can take some of those. So you can see that the tradition of engraving as we talked about yesterday goes back a long time. A hundred years at least or even more. But this is from the early '30s and '40s, these engravings. And these were actual etchings done with the acid bath that I explained that we don't do here because of the safety. You're doing a plexiglass engraving instead without the use of the acid. So I'm going to demonstrate how to do all that inking and you can get to see the difference between the copper plates that I'm passing around now and then the plexiglass plates that we're working with today. And it's kind of cool my grandfather gave those to me and asked if one of you would ink it up and print one for him while we were printing all of this. So I'm going to let one of you use his actual etched plates and then print it for him. All right, so the materials that we have out here include all the different colors of print-making ink. So for the most part, we're going to start with black today, but you can choose any color that you want. So you can see some of the examples that I put up here from past students. One student decided, instead of putting black ink on the white ground, he used white ink on black ground. So that's another method that you might choose to do after learning the basic process. So all the steps that we're going to go over are up here to remind you during the class period during the rest of the week. It's going to remind you of all the steps. So the first step after you've beveled all the edges in your plate that I demonstrated yesterday is to get yourself some print-making ink. And all of these materials will be out for you in front of the room and take it to your desk when you're ready. You'll take a little bit of print-making ink and put it on the plate like this. [thud]
 Just like that. And you'll use a tool called a brayer. And the brayer will hold your ink and it gives you a nice flat surface to apply the ink onto your plate. So once your brayer is filled with the ink, you'll apply it to the plate. And I'm actually using my grandfather's plate from several years ago. All right, so you'll gently apply the ink over the entire plate. [shuffling]
 Okay, just take a seat and I'll hand it out. [shuffling]
 All right. And after you have the entire plate inked, you'll check and make sure that you didn't miss any spots. All right, notice that I missed a spot there so I'm going to have to bring it back to the plate to get all of the areas covered. Once you have all the areas covered... And this is just in interest of time, I'll just show you the next step. Once the entire plate is covered, you'll take a small piece of mat board. [shuffling]
 I'll just use this instead. Okay, I have little pieces of mat boards for you. Okay, so you're going to take a little piece of mat board or you can use a piece of the wood that I have cut up here. After you apply the entire ground with ink, you have to remove it so you have the clean surface with everything except all the ink that's going to be on your inside lines. This has a dual purpose. It removes some of the ink for you plus it also pushes the ink down into the surface of the plate. This has been prepared for you to take off the excess ink when you're done. This will push all the ink in the surface. Okay, and then once you get most of it removed, then you can take the cheesecloth. I found one of my mat boards. Here we go. All right, so you can use the mat board here to get off most of the ink. And then you can take a piece of cheesecloth like this and you want to wad the cheesecloth into your hand like this so you have a nice solid piece of it in front. This will lift the ink off pretty easily. And after you do this process... This is the messy process, so you should take a paper towel and wash your hands after you're done with this before we move to the printing press. I'll show you how to do that. Sometimes a circular motion with this will help. So I'm going to show so you can all see. Circular motion to get off all of the ink from the surface. I'm showing you this quickly, all the steps, but I have one prepared for us to print with. Just like a cooking show, so it's ready to go. All right, so you're going to use... Flat on the table. I'm showing you this so you can see it, but you're going to do all of this flat at your desk. Get all of the ink off with the cheesecloth. If you run out of space, you could fold it over to a cleaner side and start again. Then the last step before you clean your edges... At this point, if you want to go clean your hands so you don't get it on anything again, you could go clean your hands as well. We'll take a piece of newsprint, a flat piece of newsprint and just buff the top of it again to make sure any last-minute or leftover fingerprints are taken off of it with this piece of paper. The newsprint works the best, so I have cut-up piece of newsprints for you also to make a nice, smooth surface. And before you're ready to print, you could take a Q-tip, dip it in some water, and then clean your edges. So the beveled edge that you made of your printing plates, you should take the Q-tip to clean any ink off of that bevel because the idea is to make sure the bevel around your image is clean. So this print was left up here for a reason. It doesn't have a clean edge. I wanted you to see the difference between a student that cleaned their edge and a student that didn't clean their edge. Okay, this has a nice, clean edge. This has a little bit of ink left on the edge. So when you pull a perfect print, you want to make sure you have a clean edge. And the way you guarantee that is cleaning it off--
