 [Instructor] And then with Carl's example was down to MSB, marginal social benefit. So how can we put that into words? Marginal social benefit. Andrew?
 [Andrew] Isn't it something that can't really be measured?
 Okay. Yes, and it's harder to measure, but how would you explain it? What is it? Think about what we did in the example and say like, everybody is benefiting from washing cars. Right?
 [Student] So, what is... It is a social benefit and it's what he gets from the society.
 It's what society gets from you.
 Yeah, you're on the track, but it's what we get from his interaction. Right? Okay. So, it's the benefit to society for whatever market that is. Okay? So, social benefit, this is going to be the additional benefit, okay? The additional benefit that society... those that are not involved in the transaction, but from society get from one more unit. Okay? Now, I'm going to put next to this slash costs. Oh, just kidding. That's... that's the other document. So, down here is just something is a negative thing. So what this leads to... Do you think these two definitions lead to positive externality or negative externality?
 [Students together] Positive Positive, they're things that market itself does   not take care of. Okay? Market, obviously, in this example, does not take Carl and offer YTB for all of our benefits, considering it doesn't pay him at all. Right? There are things in society that, when you look at the actual amount someone is paid, they're maybe not paid to the extent of the benefit they get. Okay? So, right now if you flip over to the back, we'll come back to definitions later, flip over to the back. Oh, I'm sorry, on the other sheet, because I didn't put it on the back, on the other sheet you have two columns. I want you first, by yourselves, without talking to someone else, think of, try to think of at least two examples where there are things in society where there are markets for these and it makes everyone better off because they're there, and we all benefit from them. Okay? Go ahead, write them down. Think about it. You really think, you're going to have to defend it. So, think about, on your own, what markets are out there, things that happen, that benefit everybody, not just the people participating in the market. So, benefits more people than are just paying for the service, not just the buyers or the sellers of that service, but outside of it, people are benefiting from it. Write and think and then we'll talk about them. Write and think, write and think.
 [Student] Wait, do we need negative ones, too?
 Just positive right now, we're going to go back to the negative ones. So, just think of the positive ones right now. Okay, benefit people, again, let's cover the definition again. Benefit people outside of the buyers and sellers in that transaction. Okay? So, we're not talking about just the buyer of someone who goes to a store and buys something and the benefit they get from it, that's marginal benefit, but that person buying this gives other people benefit outside of that person.
 [Student] But, like if they built a hospital in the neighborhood, and it has a reputation of being not like, they don't have a lot of equipment, it's not very good. Then, could you like, the property values of the of the town go down.
 So, you could talk about... Okay. So, you're on absolutely the right track, so then that would be a negative.
 [Student] Like, so what could always be a positive benefit?
 Okay. Well, let's talk about some of the negatives. Some of you wrote some stuff down. I saw Matt right away think of something, what'd you write down?
 [Matt] I said flu shots.
 Okay. Why?
 Because the more healthy people there are around the less you'll... I don't know. The less sick people there are, the more healthy people there are.
 Overall, right? Because, if one of you... Think about this. If one of us... If half of the class gets flu shots and the other half doesn't that mentality shows us that now that other half is more likely to get the flu, right? So, that is an absolutely... Flu shots. What could you make that into a broader explanation.
 [Students together] Vaccinations.
 Vaccinations. Okay? Vaccinations. So, go ahead and write those two down because those two are textbook examples.
 [Student] Is medicine good?
 Medicine... It depends if it's contagious, but go ahead and be more specific, so you want to put flu vaccine or any kind of vaccine. It's a perfect example because that is a big issue right now. A lot of parents are talking about not vaccinating their children because they're worried about issues of autism that have been indirectly, slightly connected to it, but, for the most part, that has not been proven yet, so now we're seeing other ramifications of that decision. Over here, go ahead
 Pro sports.
 Pro sports, tell me why.
 People who play get paid for doing it and the fans enjoy watching them.
 Okay, good. So, pro sports, and we're not even talking about people that necessarily pay for the ticket to go. You might just get to watch on TV. A lot of times on the main stations, you don't even have to pay cable lines. So, you would go ahead and benefit from those.
 [Student] If you pay, aren't you technically then part of that?
 If you paid for it then you're part of that market.
 [Student] So, like vaccinations. You pay for vaccine.
 Okay. But that person that pays for the vaccination doesn't get it, but all of us benefit because that one student got the vaccine. Okay? So, that's the key. It benefits people outside of the one paying for it. So, that's why it's social. Okay? Sam?
 [Sam] YouTube.
 Okay. Tell me why.
 Because people can freely put up any type of videos they want. That uses creativity and people that want to hear music from anywhere can do it wherever they want.
 Absolutely. So, YouTube is a great modern example, because we all benefit from that kind of laughter, that enjoyment. It doesn't cost us anything. People do it for their own interest and we all benefit. Cody.
 [Cody] Education.
 Education. Tell me why.
 Students learn and they get to do well in the world and then the world gets some technology.
 Okay. Good. Like, you brought up tax payers. So, your parents pay for your education in school. Right? But, by the fact that you're becoming educated, even if they pay for your college tuition. Now, you don't give back just to your parents with that education, you give back to society overall. Right? To everyone, hopefully, in the world, one way or another, you end up giving back to society. For more people than are paying for your education. Okay. Yeah?
 [Student] Clean energy, like electric cars or something, because even if you yourself don't drive one, that makes like, it improves.
 Okay. Anything green. Absolutely. Anything green like that. You can put green technologies benefit the world, which kind of brings us to one that we're going to talk about with a negative. Okay. Yeah.
 [Student] I just had a question. Could you put stock, like since if someone buys a stock it raises the price for everyone else?
 Yeah, I've never heard that example, but you could argue that. It's still benefiting a select group, though. I guess in some stocks though, that's millions and millions of people, so, I mean, you might be able to argue.
 [Student] I didn't know, because they're still involved in the transaction.
 They're only involved if it's their initial one. So, that's why I think it's worth some argument there. You might be able to prove that. I think some of the other ones across the board are a little bit more general but that's definitely something to think about. Andrew?
 [Andrew] Well see, I agree with him, because when the stock prices go up people see that as "Oh, the public is spending more," so that would bring the economy up, which would bring--
 That's a really good point because that's an indicator of the health of the economy.
 Right.
 So, by the stock market being high, it makes everyone employ people. Yeah, that's a good extra point to add in. Yeah.
 [Student] What about something like... sorry [Background Chatter]
 [Instructor] You were thinking of the same thing at the same time? Alright, go ahead.
 [Student] So, like, taxpayers, and the government pays them and even if you don't pay taxes you still benefit from it.
 You could actually put public works down in your column, because now that we've kind of opened that can, we can think about parks, right? And I get the example all the time. There's a really nice park I live right by Glenn Ellen, and I am not technically in Glenn Ellen but right by there, then I go down there, I run by the park, I take advantage of that public area, and I add to my benefit. So, just by having that park, it kind of benefits more people than just the people that pay for it. So, any public works. Police, you could talk about firemen, they benefit many more people than the people that pay for them.
 [Student] The people that clear the snow off the roads. Delightful.
 [Instructor] Can I get some negative externalities then? Flip it back over. Let's go right on. Flip it to the other sheet and let's go to the other thing here and then we'll start graphing it. Marginal costs. Let's put that in our own words here. What is the marginal cost of these? Everyone think about it for a second. Think about it, write down your own definition. This is something you should know like the back of your hand at this point. In your own words, write down the definition of marginal costs.  Write it down,  you already did? ...Marginal cost... You got it Andrew? What is marginal cost? What is marginal cost?
 [Student] The extra cost of hiring one additional worker.
 Okay. One more whatever it is. It doesn't have to be a worker. We're all thinking about workers because we just got out of inputs, we just got out of inputs and factor markets and resource markets, but, remember those units one, two and three, they had marginal cost, too. If you picture a monopoly graph, what does marginal cost look like on a monopoly graph?
 [Student] Upward sloping.
 Upward sloping, right? So, we can think of the system in every unit. So, what does it need? One, the additional cost of what?
 [Students together] One more unit.
 One more unit. Let's just keep it like that, because input is just factors. One more unit, because in a monopoly, it's marginal cost of making one more unit. In a labor market, it's the additional cost of one more worker. Keep in mind again, these are both people that are participating in that market. So, I'm going to put... This is the same thing, except for it's the cost. So, you wrote it ready in your own words but make sure you've got that basic idea. Additional cost of one more unit. So, now we're applying it to this new idea. What's the marginal social cost of something? The marginal social cost. Andrew?
 [Andrew] How much society loses for one more unit.
 Okay. How much society loses for one more unit or how much it takes away, or cost us when we make one more unit. So, we're going to think, and I'm going to add thoughts here. It's for all of society. So, flip it over, what are some examples, or go to the other sheet. What are some examples of negative externalities now that we've got this down in your mind. What are some negatives? Zach.
 [Zach] Breathing in pollution.
 Pollution. That again, he is on it, this is the textbook definition. Pollution is the most common example. So, what has government implemented to try to curtail pollution? What kind of things have they done?
 [Student] Smoking ban laws.
 Okay, good, smoking bans. So, you could say pollution, you could also say cigarette smoke is a negative externality. So, government stepped in, which is the type of pollution. The government stepped in and said "No, you cannot smoke in places of employment, you cannot smoke in any public area in Illinois, " it's obviously done by state, but the state has stepped in to curtail this type of externality. Betty?
 [Betty] Don't they have pollution rights that they can buy in the market?
 Okay. Very good. Who do they buy them from?
 The government.
 Good. So, federal government actually sells pollution rights. So, that's another way that they deal with it. What agency was created to deal with pollution?
 [Student] The EPA.
 EPA. So, the EPA is out there trying to make sure that only so much pollution happens. Yeah.
 [Student] This is kind of more local, but like banks in Elmhurst, like they make a lot of banks, a ton of banks, but every single time they make a new one it seems like less use of all the banks like there's no point to them and it's like a lot of--
 So, you're saying that's a negative externality because there's too much?
 [Student] Not just that there's just like... Say you replace a store that maybe some people use and make a bank and then there's less to do in Elmhurst.
 Okay. Try to think of the best way... I mean, I see what you're saying because that transaction takes away from your enjoyment of living in a town.
 [Student] You could put something else there like a new house or a restaurant or something, just don't put a bank. [Background Chatter]
 Okay. So, how would the government fix that?
 [Student] ...They could be like "We're not going to let you buy it." The bank buy that lot, they could have said no.
 So, they might limit, they might say how many of these business could be. That's a new one. I've never heard of that, but obviously there's something there to that because you're saying it's taking away from the enjoyment of people in the community. It is maybe adding to the wealth of the community with the employment and the income that's being raised, but overall... True, no. I think you've got something there but it's a different lens. Andrew?
 I think that a better example for that would be parking lots because then it's just there and not doing anything, whereas for a bank it increases the competition and it increases the rate of... [Background Chatter].
 [Student] The parking garage closer to the Y encourages people to go down to the retail area of Elmhurst and it kind of does encourage people to... [Background Chatter]
 All right. I like what you guys are going with this, either one of you could make an argument with it. That kind of brings up another point, though. This is somewhat of, Alex, are you with me? This is somewhat of a, this is somewhat of an opinion, right? Because, now you're saying that there's certain things, that there's definite, and those are going to be our perfect examples like pollution. No one in their right mind can argue that pollution gives a benefit to society. They can argue that what they produce that produces pollution is helping industrialize, I mean, talk to China. One example. Their massive pollution, few regulations at all because they're trying to compete with other countries and step up, but they're not, they definitely would say it's worth it. But pollution itself, no one can say that it's good. Andrew mentioned something about the beauty of something. What are some things that people buy or do--
