 Get out your journal, I'll read it aloud and I'll put the time on the timer. Get our your journal. We're looking at journal entry number 14. And you're not allowed to write I don't know, take a guess if you're not sure, but don't write I don't know. So question 14 is very simple. Why do you think an earthquake happens? You can write it, you can draw a picture. So I'm asking you why do you think an earthquake happens. You have three minutes right now to write what you think. Why do you think an earthquake happens? (whispering) Why do you think an earthquake happens, and why do you think... (whispering) Remember there's no right or wrong, it's what you think is the answer. Remember you can draw a picture if that helps you. Okay if you want to draw (mumbles) alright you've got like a minute left so you can draw a picture. Write down what you think. (whispering) I'm gonna give you about 30 more seconds. Many of you are still writing and that's fine, but I thought before we talk about this let's take a look at a little clip because I realize maybe not everybody has experience with an earthquake. So this one's kinda cool. It was shot obviously on somebody's iPhone so it's not the best quality, but many of you know that Japan has lots of earthquakes all the time, they're very used to earthquakes. So this person lives in Japan, and so again they're used to earthquakes, right? So they weren't like panicking so he actually took his iPhone and filmed the ground. So I want you to take a look. We're only gonna look at about a minute of it, but I want you to notice how the ground is moving, okay? And we're gonna use that idea to talk about why earthquakes happen. So this is pretty cool. So this was back in March 2011. So notice. (rumbling) Now they're gonna go to another part. Notice the ground in the back, watch the back. You'll see something happen. (yelling) Watch what's happening. (rumbling) Alright so that's real, it's not like there was a machine underneath there doing that. So you guys, we can solve what's happening, so let's take that and let's talk about this through. Why do you think an earthquake happens? Why do you guys think an earthquake happens? And remember, when we talk we're gonna let one person go at a time and we're gonna make sure we talk loudly so that we can hear. Alright so let's just start on this side. We're gonna work this way, Tony, what did you write? Why do you think an earthquake happens?
 Well, I think there's something wrong with the mantle that's coming out through the crust and makes it vibrate the earth and causing an earthquake?
 Okay, something to do with the mantle causes the earth to vibrate? Also I liked how you used a complete sentence. So remember, if you're not sure, there's some sentence starters up there. Jheyline, what did you write?
 I think earthquakes happen because two plate boundaries overlap each other.
 Excellent, because plate boundaries overlap each other. Jose.
 [Jose] I think that earthquakes happen when plates crash.
 When plates crash.
 [Jose] Together.
 Anybody else? Adrian, and then Dajana.
 I think that earthquakes happen because plates slide.
 Because plates slide, excellent. Dajana?
 I think an earthquake happens from too much stress? (mumbles) Also, I think the plate boundaries overlap.
 Ooh, I like what you said, and that's exactly where I'm going next. So in that video clip you guys saw the ground move. I'm gonna give you 10 seconds. And that 10 seconds you're gonna share with the person next to you how did the ground move? What direction was that ground moving? So you have 10 seconds, share with your partner next to you or share with the people across from you. Go, 10 seconds. (students chattering) Alright, finishing up in five, four, three, two, one, zero. Okay, so I heard lots of people talking so I'm gonna pull a name, this time, remember you can say what you said or what the person next to you said. So what kind of movement did you notice in that video clip? Let's see... (mumbles). Now Neferly, what kind of movement did you see?
 [Neferly] They were moving (mumbling) apart?
 Good, moving apart, what else did you notice, Angel?
 [Angel] They were moving apart.
 Moving apart, what else did you notice, Dajana?
 Well, it was crashing everywhere, but I saw the... (mumbling)
 Ooh, kind of like water coming out of the sky? Josh, what else did you notice? (knocking) Oh, so a little bit of up and down movement? Alright so, up and down movement. Anybody else notice any other type of movement? So you guys said up and down, you said moving apart. (background noise drowns out speaker) Oh, did you see how that piece literally slid?
 Yeah.
 Alright, so that's movement. You guys know some words for this. What are some words that we've learned to describe movement, and Dajana said a couple. What words, Jina?
 [Jina] Shearing.
 Yes, so there was some shearing happening. What else was happening? Rodolfo.
 [Rodolfo] Tension?
 Yes, some tension pulling apart. And what else did you notice, Daniel?
 Compression?
 Yeah, compression, squeezing together. Okay, so we're getting this idea that, didn't Dajana, you said it was stress, or you said stress, Dajana right? So something about stress being kind of important. So we're gonna take that idea. Give us a moment, okay, thanks. Alright, so sorry about the interruption. So stress, Dajana was saying stress. So let me give you an example. So let's imagine that this rubber band is not a rubber band. Let's imagine that it's a rock. And let's imagine it's a rock, I know, it's a rubber band, but let's imagine it's a rock. So I'm gonna take, I'm gonna go like this, it's a rock, remember? So I'm doing this to the rock, and then I'm gonna stand here for an entire year, and then a year from now I'm gonna put my hands further apart. And then another year, I'm gonna put my hands further apart. What's happening to this rock, or this rubber band? What's happening to this rock over time? What's happening, Lupita, to this rock?
 [Lupita] It's stretching.
 It's stretching, what else? Add to that, Tucker.
 [Tucker] (mumbling) and stretching it out, stretch is added to it?
 Stress is added too, nice, Victor?
 [Victor] So maybe it's getting a little compression.
 Okay, maybe a little compression too. My hands are getting tired, Tony?
 Continental drift?
 Ooh, like okay, so if there were other pieces like my hands were Africa and South America, they'd be moving apart. Ernesto?
 [Ernesto] Thinner in the middle?
 Thinner in the middle. Sakura?
 [Sakura] Tension.
 So tension, now I'm gonna stop because my hands starting to hurt, but what would happen if I kept doing that? I'm gonna have you take 10 seconds to talk to the person next to you. What might happen if I kept doing that, and I kept doing that, and I kept doing that? What might happen to this rubber band, or this rock? So 10 seconds, to the person next to you, ten seconds. (students chattering) Alright, finishing up in five, four, three, two, one, zero. Okay, I heard lots of good discussion. So if I kept doing this, I kept doing it, I kept doing it, Moses, what might happen?
 [Moses] It might crack and break.
 It might crack and break. Everyone, what else maybe might happen? Victor?
 [Victor] It will scrape the mountain and it will create an earthquake and it'll break.
 Ooh, oh I like, 'cause you remember this a lot right? Little earthquake, excellent Tucker?
 It's just like when you shove your fingers, go all the way back it will break.
 Oh yeah, that would be painful. Jheyline?
 It'd probably explode from so much tension and stretch everything.
 Did everybody hear that word she just said? Which word did you say, it would?
 Explode.
 Explode, wow. That's a big, powerful word, but that's pretty equal to what happened, right? Big amount of power.
 Or like when you were doing that with the rock, like when you were moving it, like it would get more thinner and get more, it would kinda get wider when after all while it's still going it's gonna like (mumbles).
 Good, so let's step back a little bit. So who was it, someone had said earthquake, right? You had said earthquake. So it's sounding like, what if that happens first? So before the earth actually moves, before what we saw in the video, what did you guys think was happening? And Moses had used the word for it too. What was happening to the rocks over time? So over time what was happening in that rock that would eventually lead to an earthquake? What's happening over time? Ernesto, what's happening over time?
 It's stretching?
 It's stretching, keep going with that, Diego?
 [Diego] It was standing.
 It was standing, Tony?
 [Tony] It's spreading apart?
 Spreading apart, Jheyline?
 [Jheyline] Widening?
 Widening, Tiger?
 Breaking?
 Breaking, so wait before the breaking though, you guys were saying it was stretching, it was pulling, so what word can you describe it building up in here, building up, Stephanie?
 [Stephanie] Through stress?
 Ah, okay, so it sounds like if we're gonna make an earthquake we need to have stress first. We have said stress that builds, right? Stress builds, and then what's gonna happen when the stress builds, and it builds, and it builds and it builds and it can't take it anymore? What's going to happen, Manuel?
 Collide?
 This is stress, keep going. Not collide, what's another word that's kind of, same idea? So you said it when I was over here. It's gonna keep stressing, and stressing, and what's gonna happen to the rock?
 Rip?
 It'll what?
 Rip?
 Rip, what's another word you can say.
 It'll explode.
 Explode, Adrian?
 Break?
 Break, great, so there's going to be a rupture. Or a break. And then is that it? End of the story? Nice day, that's it? Where does all this energy go, right? There's all this energy building up, where does it go? Yeah it ruptures, it breaks, and then is it over?
 No.
 No, what, where, what happened? Where did the energy go? Where did that energy go? Irma, where'd it go?
 [Irma] Plate tectonics?
 Yeah, it has to do with plate tectonics, absolutely. Where did that energy go? Where did it go, Rodolfo?
 [Rodolfo] Plate boundaries?
 [Teacher] Yeah, plate boundaries. So okay we got stress builds, ruptures, it breaks, and then is that it?
 No.
 That's the earthquake? What action? Yeah, Anna.
 It becomes an earthquake?
 Yeah, it becomes an earthquake and so what do we experience? Jheyline?
 Shaking?
 Shaking, oh! So it sounds like there's a rupture or a break, and then that's gonna lead to shaking and that shaking is actually what being released?
 An earthquake.
 It's an earthquake, yes and what is that shaking actually being released? So the shaking is released, what? Victor?
 All the stress?
 Yes, it's releasing all the stress. What's another word you could say? Releasing all of its...?
 Power.
 Power is a good word, or, Diego?
 [Diego] Energy.
 Energy, right? So it seems like all an earthquake is, is stress building up, building up, building up, breaks, and then we feel that. What do we experience the energy as? So what do we experience, think of the energy as? What do we experience it, as an energy? (knocking)
 That?
 That, what's that? (knocking)
 Shaking.
 Shaking, right? Alright awesome. So now we're gonna, you guys did that perfectly. So we're gonna write that down in our notes.
 [All Students] Woah.
 I know, that, earthquakes release energy, right? So that's what happens as a result. So we are not in any way done with this, because we are gonna talk all about different (mumbles). You guys have made a good start on what's happening. So we are gonna take two notes today. They're pretty short. I'm sorry, the first one's a little long. The other one's super short. But this is what you guys were just telling me except now we're gonna add the word elastic strain, which is what you guys were telling me. You were telling me that energy was building up, you were telling me stress was building up, and that's gonna cause elastic strain. Yes, Dajana?
 The pictures that you showed us (mumbles).
 What?
 It only cut through the (mumbles).
 Kind of, yeah.
 Yes.
 So like maybe 'cause on the bottom that came out of the ground (mumbles).
 Yeah.
 And then it just spilled it over, then it came out of the ground.
 Yeah, so thank you for those of you who got started. Rodolfo, let me just read this off for people. So our first topic today is earthquake energy. And this is what we just talked about. But now we're getting a chance to write it down and we're adding in a bigger word. And that word is elastic strain. So elastic strain is the energy stored as rocks change shape. So elastic strain is the energy stored as rocks change shape. Okay, so that's step one in an earthquake. Step two. Energy is released when the rock ruptures or breaks. So elastic strain is the energy stored as rocks change shape and energy is released when the rock ruptures or it breaks and released energy travels in seismic waves, and we will learn all about those next week. But you can still write down, you just think released energy travels and it's felt as shaking.
