 Can you think of... what-what images are coming into your head about the Holocaust that relate to this?
 Um, people dying in the gas chambers
 Okay, and... and how did that happen?
 He convinced other people that they were awful, and then that's really the only way you can get people to do something as cruel as that.
 Okay, so you're saying Hitler couldn't have carried out all that evil himself so he had to convince other people that basically the Jewish people were what?
 Nothing
 They were just less than... just a lesser race of people
 You're on a good track, I'll check back with you in a second. [chatter]
 ... by stepping on another group of people.
 So the other groups would actually help them.
 Like we have to remember that the injustice... the injustice is what causes us to want to go and help and restore justice and it's not just injustice anyway.
 you have to want to help and not just sit back and do nothing.
 Well outside people like in Atlanta and Birmingham, like, in there, like, in Birmingham were being persecuted while people in Atlanta weren't really doing anything.
 Well I mean, look what's happening today, I mean, we have a volunteer army and people are volunteering and going and trying to stop the injustice in Afghanistan and so that was practically the same thing as what Martin Luther King did for Alabama.
 So you're saying you see a connection in the real world news? That sort of our soldiers, the fact that they volunteer would be an example for number five? Is that what you are saying?
 Yeah
 Had y'all talked about number five yet?
 Uh, we were just going in order and seeing which ones that we could...
 And yours is... read me your quotation.
 Um, "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere."
 Okay good. Well you're just being to come up with things. Okay go ahead I'm just going to...
 Okay, so what's the first question?
 Explain the context in which, um, Martin Luther King said this and how it applies in that situation.
 Okay
 He doesn't want people to sit back and not do anything about a problem, he wants them to go and help and stop...
 It's almost as if their problem is his problem-
 Is his problem.
 Good, I like that.
 But even though he wants them to help, well he doesn't want them to do it in a violent way.
 Always need to underguard MLK with that, don't we?
 And that sort of ties into "It's wrong to use immoral means to attain moral ends."
 Do you find yourself, as you're discussing any one of these, the others layer on there?
 Yeah
 That's why it feels so important to have gotten this whole document as a whole. Think you've gotten enough from them, Brianna, for that one?
 Yeah, I think so.
 Well I guess Clyde's already said that, there's already one for the current news--
 Yeah
 ... that we could put down.
 So the volunteer soldiers.
 Volunteer army.
 Volunteer army.
 I'll check back with y'all, good job.
 ... are they more reluctant to, like, um, listen to the lower class bunnies cause they felt like they had a better rule of it.
 Yeah I think that's it.
 Okay, so in Watership Down, the higher class rabbits did not want to give up their superior... how do you spell that because I think I spelled that before... privileges
 Privileges? You know what, to be honest with you every time I am typing, I let spell-check do it because that d and g always messes me up
 I was spelling superiority.
 Superiority, I'm sorry. Okay, so what group have you chosen Colleen? and what... what... ?
 Uh, privileged groups seldom give up their privileges voluntarily and groups tend to be more immoral than individuals.
 And I hear that you're using a Watership Down example, which-
 My idea.
 Your idea, good for you! And what is the, um, what Warren are we talking about?
 The very first one, um.
 Sandleform.
 Sandleform, yeah.
 Yeah, go ahead and tell me about that.
 Yeah, it's like, um, the higher class rabbits didn't want to give up their privileges of superiority to listen to the lower bunnies. [cross talk]
 Does that make sense to you, India? That's a good example, I really like it! Okay, have you gotten anything else?
 Um, we did the one about the time in history where this quotation applies?
 What was the time in history, Bish?
 Um...
 Number two.
 Where this quotation applies is the Holocaust. Um, during Nazi rule, people felt better about discriminating against the Jews because many others were also doing it.
 So what was the privileged group that were reluctant to give up its privileges?
 Um, actually I think this one was grouped to be more of an individuals rights.
 Right, so the whole group of what?
 The whole group of, um...
 Nazis.
 ... the Nazis and the pretty much anyone that favored Hitler and the Nazis.
 But maybe they wouldn't have carried out those atrocities alone but kind of got into a mob mentality, is that kind of where  we are with this?
 Yes.
 Good, well y'all go ahead, I'm just going to watch a minute
 So...
 I'll finish writing the Watership Down one... the higher class rabbits did not want to give up their superiority to... how about... admit that some of the lower
 Number four would be easier to connect to a teenager's life... that one actually fits for both of those.
 What does?
 Um, for telling a time in a teenager's life, um, both of these, the two parts of the quote would apply because it's like, when you're getting, like, verbally abused, it feels much worse coming from a group than it does from an individual.  So if there's a whole group picking on you, then that makes it worse and the privileged groups seldom give up their privileges voluntarily. So say, say someone has a good cafeteria lunch table and someone who's sitting over by the garbage cans wants to move over there, so they ask, "Hey you don't have to sit over at our table, but can you move somewhere else so we can sit there just for a day." They'll probably say "No" because they won't think of another place to go besides that table that those other people left.
 And they don't want to go by the garbage cans.
 Nobody wants to.
 I think that's a good connection. A good, very present day connection. Good, I'll be back. Yes of course
 Um, Allison, would you like to?
 I have no clue, would it be okay to write about, like, how people in foreign countries use, like, the sex trade as an "it," an I-it relationship?
 Certainly.
 Mr. Gallant's class.
 We just had to make sure it was all right with you before we started just writing it down.
 That's okay, that's okay, that seems very real to me. Okay
 ... fictional things, so if it's fictional, it doesn't have to be people
 I didn't say that we could use, um, what's that, Watership Down, I said we could use that, did I not?
 All right, let's see...
 Okay, whatever.
 I said we can use Hazel and the Warren for oppressed people that are not...
 But I think we should do Efrafa because the bunnies, like, revolted and they got free remember?
 Yeah.
 That's what I'm thinking.
 I'm hearing an argument where both of you think Watership would be a good connection but we're debating which what?
 Oppressed people cannot remain oppressed forever.
 Which Warren would like... be better
 I think Efrafa.
 Which one did you say?
 Um, the first one that came to from... what was it called...
 [together] Sandleford.
 Sandleford.
 Okay, tell me why you think that.
 Because they were, they had freedom, but it was like they were just, they couldn't do what they wanted all the time. They could just do certain things in a certain vicinity. They couldn't go out or go anywhere, and they were just stuck against their will for that long of a time until they, um, like, revolted against their Warren and left.
 What were you going to add, Michael?
 Oh, like it was like a routine everyday, like, it was the same thing, they followed like a routine, like they went out and then ate and then slept
 But I think Efrafa is like that except for it's a lot worse, like they didn't even get to go out, like they got like feeding times and they would have to feed, like, right here and they'd have to go right back into their Warren.
 I think they're both good examples, but I think Machi's is more able to be explained by that because they did, but in his, you know, uh, uh, Hazel and Big-Wig and all them broke away and then they went to go search for...
 They eventually got what they wanted. In Efrafa they didn't get what they wanted until someone came in to...
 And not everybody in Efrafa got out.
 But not everyone in, um, Sandleford got out, most of them didn't.
 But I mean the group that we're talking about, the main...
 But the main characters got out and achieved what they wanted, where they wanted.
 Because no one else would listen.
 Let me tell you something, the main reason we're doing this is so that these quotations and these philosophies and that kind of thing, will inform our later life. It doesn't make me sad that you have two examples because when it's a little bit wrong, or when it's a lot wrong because when you notice it when it's a little bit wrong sometimes you can keep it from getting a lot wrong, so it kind of pleases me that you're seeing it at two different levels, so I think use Efrafa and Sandleford, and you'll have the best answer, Okay? Okay, what are we working on?
 We are trying to debate whether we should pick Cuba or Egypt as current events for-
 ... for privileged groups so we can get...
 Well, let's hear your arguments.
 Cuba, Fidel Castro has been a tyrant for
 Metaphorically, he's about to die.
 He's still in power, okay? Egypt's been resolved already.
 No.
 Well, they're arguing that it's not in the news but it's going on right now.
 Well I think it would be best if we did something that was going on in the news that we've like talked about in class that's really really really...
 And we all understand it.
 What don't you understand about Cuba though?
 Like there's nothing that's really in the news right now
 Cuba, they still have the same old thing just like every other country that's happened, just a little bit worse.
 Here's what I'm hearing. You have a great example but your group is wanting to go with the Egypt example, and it doesn't dis, uh, disvalue yours because it's important to be able to understand that it can happen over a long time and sometimes when he's talking about apathy, when it's happened for a long time, people don't, less and less and less, revolt, Okay?
 Could we possibly do Cuba in the history one?
 Oh I think you could! Work on that, that's a great idea. How are we coming?
 Good, we're done.
 Good, done
 I think we are finished.
 I want to hear your, uh, everyday life one.
 All right, our, for our teenager?
 Yes.
 All right, we're saying, like, if there's a group of popular kids and they're like calling names and putting down a group of the not-so-popular kids and they're just not treating them like they're normal people too, they're just treating them like lesser people.
 Less than human?
 They might, they might not pay attention to them, also, they just...
 In the way you wouldn't necessarily recognize a theme, but in a way, you would never ignore a human or we would think should never ignore a human being. Okay, great. So I want you, as you're looking back over yours, make sure that you've given your reader or your listener enough information. My shortest one was like three sentences and there's nothing magic about the number of sentences, just check yours because you're a little ahead of everyone else for thoroughness and see if there's any details you could add. Okay great. How are we coming?
 Um, good.
 Pretty much done.
 Awesome, awesome. You've got three of the four? Which ones did you do?
 Um, the tell us a time in history when the quotation applies and the fiction quotation and the teenagers of life.
 And your quotation was?
 Oh, we did, um, it is wrong to use immoral means to attain moral ends, the last temptation is the greatest treason to do the right deed for the wrong reasons.
 Thank y'all for choosing that one, that's a very hard one
 And we put [Inaudible].
 And the third one, great. Now will some body tell me what your fictional one was?
 Um, we did... why don't you explain this one Isabelle?
 Okay, I did Peter Pan.
 Uh-huh.
 'Cause when Peter Pan, he persuades, or, he offers to take the children to the other place and it sounds wonderful to them, but he's doing it for the wrong reasons.
 What reasons do you think he's really doing it?
 To have a mother for the children, the lost children.
 And so he's not really thinking of their well-being, he's thinking of his and the lost boys' well-being.
 Right.
 What a great connection. I'm so proud of y'all! That's awesome! And did you do news?
 Uh, we did history.
 History, what's your historical one?
 Uh, we did, uh, when the Europeans-
