 Hello, guys. After all the hard work you've put in on doing your presentations, and your tri-board, and all the really cool stuff you've done, now we need to put it all together and see what you think about these energy sources that you've done all this research for. Okay? So, first off, doing a little poll. Which energy source do you like the best and think it would be the best one to use?
 Solar energy.
 Why?
 It looks pretty cool, and, I don't know, it seems like the most efficient way because the sun's always there and the sun won't run out--
 That's the word, whenever you're done using it--
 You can sell it.
 You can keep the energy from the sun from the morning and afternoon during the night.
 You can sell it.
 Okay, so he thinks solar. Who else?
 Okay.
 Go ahead.
 I like the wind.
 (chair squeeks) Oh, so you can talk to him. Because you want to be able to talk to each other, right? I liked the wind one because it stored up the battery. And the battery, whenever it wasn't windy, and so it kind of was always there. It didn't matter about the wind.
 Yeah, you can answer the question.
 [Female student] I also think that wind's the best one because not only can you store it and have energy for whenever there is no wind, you can also make money off of that. So, maybe if you get it in enough homes, you won't even have to have a job. You can make money off that.
 [Teacher] That's a very good point. That's a very good point, making money off of that energy source. Which other ones did we say could make money?
 Um, the solar. Solar can make money (students interject).
 Well, I like the wind. Because, it's like, the sun is going to burn up one day, but the wind is always going to be there. And the only bad thing about it is that the birds are going to die, but that's okay. (laughter around the room)
 [Teacher] Okay, well, what are some pros and cons then? So, you just said birds would die if we use wind power, okay? Does that outweigh the benefit that you get from using wind power? (students answer over one another, mostly disagreeing)
 I think birds dying isn't that bad, because, you know, we eat birds, so I don't think it would be that bad if birds do die. I mean, I don't think a lot of birds die because of the wind solar energy. Not as much as oil, or any of that other stuff.
 Yeah, or like we eat birds.
 The other one I like is the hydro one that James did, because-- (students agreeing and disagreeing)
 [Male student in grey] His was ridiculous. That was nice.
 [Teacher] So, what part of it were you most impressed with? Like, not like the demonstration, but it was a great demonstration, but hydroelectric power in general, what part of that--
 [Female Student] Like how if you have a pond or something, you can put it in there, and then it will power up your whole house.
 [Teacher] Do we need moving water?
 Oh yeah, you need moving water to have that. You'd have to have a stream, but you could basically do it anywhere you have moving water. And if you really wanted to spend some money, there's also the pump storage plant from a high reservoir to a low reservoir.
 [Teacher] So, that one actually sounds pretty good. So, somebody want to defend theirs, Rakif?
 I don't really like mine, because--
 [Teacher] Which one did you do?
 [Rakif] I did oil.
 [Other Student] Natural Gas.
 [Teacher] Oil and natural gas, okay. Why not?
 Because mine isn't as abundant as the wind or as the solar energy, so it's probably going to run out pretty soon. Like oil, natural gas, and coal do run out. They're not going to be as, here as much as the wind, or hydro or something like that.
 Well, there's a lot of dangers involved with using oil, right? Oil rigs, pipelines, lots of dangers involved, right?
 Oil prices can cause high gas prices.
 [Teacher] That's true too. Remember in your presentation, you talk about some of the dangers. What were those dangers, and are those dangers any better or worse than some of the other dangers for the other energy sources?
 For oil?
 Yeah.
 The pipelines can burst, and they can kill marine life in the water if the oil gets out.
 They could cause another oil spill.
 Explosions.
 But coal, I know you're supposed to like stick up for your natural resource, but I kind of think coal can be good, but it's mostly bad, because a lot of people's lives are getting killed because of all the gasses, smells, and being down there for so long. And I think that's also very bad.
 And the land, it hurts the land and the environment.
 Coal is a very dirty resource if you think about it. All the coal dust, it can cause a lot of lung problems. So, the miners that go down there, they're risking their lives right?
 Yeah.
 Any of the other resources as dangerous as mining coal?
 No.
 [Student] Nuclear energy.
 [Teacher] What?
 Nuclear energy is the worst.
 [Teacher] Okay, what about nuclear energy? How dangerous was that when you looked it up?
 It's a six out of ten chance.
 [Teacher] Of what happening?
 It depends. It costs way too much, first of all, to build it.
 [Teacher] It is very expensive. That's true.
 It's got a lot of risks, like if it gets into your water, or if you breathe in the radiation. (mumbles)
 [Rakif] I imagine it could--
 [Student] It smells bad. (chair crashing against the floor). (mumbles)
 [Male Student] Okay, does collecting oil use more energy than it provides?
 [Teacher] Good question!
 What do you mean by collecting oil?
 [Male Student] Like, if you have to have the process of going underground and drilling the oil, does it use more energy than it provides?
 No, I don't think so. Because in my presentation, it said it produces like a widespread, like a very large amount of energy. And also that, your wave and tidal power powers our system, as you said in your presentation. [Teacher] Oh, good point. Those two actually work together. When you talk about the wave and tidal power, that energy could be harnessed to run your offshore drilling. So, that's a very good thing as well.
 It's a benefit of drilling.
 Absolutely. Are there different energies that do benefit each other?
 Yes, the solar energy and wind. Because the wind energy is based off the sun, because of how the sun waves come onto the Earth and then it turns this sun mill, so it produces the turning of the mill, so the sun and solar energy and wind energy-- (loud bell tone sounds)
 The solar energy and the wind, they actually work together, because I've seen some wind turbines that have solar energy panels on the top. One, then the other can go. That's okay.
 I think solar energy is a really good thing, because for a lot of power plants, like for times, the condition of natural resources like wind, even hydroelectric if there's a drought or something, or not enough water flow, you could always have the solar panels stuck on top of the plant, or anywhere.
 Right, because we've found that solar is pretty cost-feasible right?
 Yeah, it's not that expensive. And actually, you won't have to pay an electrical bill if you get that.
 If you were going to use solar panels to power a wind turbine or something, you're better off just using the solar panel.  It would just cost more money to have to get the solar panels and the wind turbine, or to have the solar panels power the turbine.
 It doesn't power it. It's just, like, another way to get energy at the same time that you're getting the wind. When there's no wind, there's not much of a wind--
 [Student on far left] That's what the battery's for. Hmm, interesting.
 I have a question for solar power, too. For solar power, how can I make aluminum more efficient in the future?
 Well, it doesn't use a lot of the gas, so it doesn't affect the environment. So, it doesn't affect your breathing. And you don't need solar panels, like you don't need to turn stuff on during the day, because the sun, through the windows, can give you light, and then can store up for the night.
 Okay.
 I have a question. What natural resource do you think will be the most used in the future? Like, 50 or so years from now? (students talking over each other)
 Wind. It was used like 3,000 years ago, so if it was used 3,000 years ago, I think it would be used 3,000 years in the future.
 That's not necessarily true, because it could get more worn out by the time 3000 years in the future comes.
 The problem with the wind thing is (coughing) it can be used in country, like rural areas, because in other areas, you can't put a wind turbine in a normal neighborhood. Because you can't, can you put one? (students overlap, disagreeing)
 You mean I could put one outside the school here? (students argue)
 [Student 1] Well, it would give energy to the school and the rest of the houses that are near the school.
 [Student 2] Well, I'd put it on top of the school, because then there would be more wind higher up.
 Right, and we have to worry about spacing, right? Because we were saying wind power is built usually where? On wind farms, where you have a lot of flat land. Because if you build in a mountainous region, are you going to get a lot of the wind? (students answering all at once) [Student on left side of room] If it's high enough it'll  probably be enough.
 Then if you build your wind turbine high up on a mountain, what is the chance of that wind turbine maybe getting struck by lightning, or being damaged that way?
 [Student on Left] Yeah, that could be a real problem because of the wind and the way it could be struck down.
 Right, that's very possible. So, when you think about one (bell tones) energy source, is there really one energy source to go with? Or do you have to take into consideration a lot of factors of where you live, what's available? Because, again, talking about building a hydroelectric plant we established you need running water. Is there running water everywhere around the United States? [Several students] No.
 No. And what's the problem if you flood an area, even if there is a running water, what happens if you flood the area?
 Well, they have to decide. Usually if it's going to be a major problem, they will actually dig a separate reservoir for the river to flood instead of it coming up on the banks of the river and destroying homes and things. That's mostly our United States rule. But, in China, they really don't care. So they flood three or four cities, multiple towns, fill up three gorges of water.
 Wow. That's just insane. Because once you disrupt water flow, you have a problem. So again, there are some pros and cons to these. Okay, we're going to take a second, and we're going to try to rank the resources in terms of which one you guys think is the best one to possibly use. So, if you had to pick one that you wanted to go with, whether there was running water, think you have those things beside you, don't limit yourself there, but turn to your neighbor for a minute, and discuss which one you think would be like 1 and 2. Because each one of you might have a different opinion. Give each other a little bit of a reason why, and we'll get back together in just a second. (students discussing in pairs)
 [Teacher] Alright guys, another 30 seconds. Then we'll get back together. (students continue discussing) [Teacher] Alright, three, two, one. Let's wrap up our conversations. Alright. How many people, by show of hands, went with one of the non-renewable resources, like coal, oil, or natural gas? Cool! So, everybody picked a renewable resource as the way to go. Alright, Ryan?
 I think it's either wind or solar power.
 [Teacher] How many people agree?
 Oh, so wind or solar is the clear choice. Jonah, why?
 The thing is, I think solar would be first. Because solar energy, you can use almost anywhere, pretty much. But the wind, if you live here,  you can't get it as easily, because there's not as much wind. So, it would be a lot easier to have solar, because you can use solar anywhere, because the sun is shining pretty much everywhere.
 We think solar too, because the sun is always there, even if it is winter, or it's a little cloudy, the sun is still there.
 [Student] Yeah, but what about at night time?
 [Teacher] So, Maddy, what did we find out about solar?
 At night time, like a lot of people go to work during the day, so no one's at their house using their lights and stuff. So, there's a battery that stores all the energy and then you can come home at night and you can still power your house. (students talking over each other)
 You still get some light at night, bouncing off the moon. [Teacher] Dustin, what do you think?
 I was thinking that solar energy would be great because I was comparing it to if you want to charge your phone, and you have it plugged in, and while it's plugged in it's fully charged and you can still use it, and it won't un-charge because it's still plugged into the wall. But, if the power goes out at your house, then it will stop charging, and you'll have that much battery left. So, it's kind of like if you're out in the day, and your house is charging while there's still sun. So, you're still getting energy, and at night time when the sun is gone, you'll have that energy saved in the battery of the solar thing.
 [Female student] Well, it's the same thing with wind power. You'd still have that battery there.
 Yeah. Wind power would be--
 Would solar power still work during a storm?
 It depends how severe the storm is.
 So, you mean this is, like, built to last.
 Yeah, if it gets struck by lightning, I don't think it would still work.
 [Teacher] But, you know, when there are clouds outside during the day on a cloudy day, you know the solar radiation is still getting through the clouds, right? (students agree) So, that solar panel would still be getting energy from the sun on a cloudy day, just at night you would still have to use the battery that's been stored. Just like with wind power. There is wind power all day long, all night long, but sometimes it does die down at certain times, so there's a battery too, there as well. Exactly.
 I agree with solar power, but I agree that it would be great for being on your houses and things, but I don't see the purpose of a solar farm. It takes up a lot of land. Just the point to collect the sun, I think it would be better putting it on a house or combining it with another power plant, like wind power or something like that, because--
 [Female student] And cost-wise it would be probably expensive, because it was 900 for just one of those panels. And Miss Shonda said it would take about 12 just for one house.
 That's basically about 10,800.
 For one house.
 But we also think that solar panels blend in more than winter lines. Just imagine random winter lines in your front yard.
 Yeah, but we saw pictures, or a video, of a solar-powered house, and most people don't like solar panels because it looks unattractive on the top of your house. Same with the wind power, wind turbines would look unattractive. But you can still decorate them if you want. You can't really do that with the wind power, I mean solar power thing, because it's mostly black.
 [Teacher] That's a good thought. So, going forward, thinking of an energy solution, because as you guys get older, energy is going to be something you have to worry about. We've seen the gas prices. The gasoline prices for regular cars go up. You've seen the ethanol being developed. Is it good to keep developing new technologies? How many of you guys, once you start driving, think if you could do it or your parents could do it for you, would drive a hybrid car?
 I would. [Teacher] Okay, would you drive a hybrid car?
 Yeah, I would drive one, because it's more in miles per gallon, and with rechargeable cars, you can charge your car instead of using gas and spending more money.
 [Teacher] That's good. Also the emissions from your gas.
