 They died because?
 No CO2.
 Two snails.
 So if add another plant in there is that going to add CO2, or is it going to take away more CO2?
 Takeaway, you could probably try it with the lights off.
 Why do you think that would work?
 Umm... Maybe it might give them some more CO2.
 Okay, well why don't you write down your predictions, so she said turn the lights off and see what happens. So did your snail coordinate with your prediction?
 Yeah, but for long.
 Not for long? All right, Haley, so look at your prediction. This is your setup. Isaiah, can you go shut the door for me?
 Okay, so number E.
 Stay alive, stay alive.
 Not number, letter E.
 It lived.
 Okay, why do you think
 But is also in
 unstable environment.
 I thought plants needed sunlight to live. How are they still alive, and then they died when when you --
 Because there was no light? [Background Chatter]
 It was light.
 Tell me what
 you said.
 I had no idea.
 Wait, never mind.
 What do you think?
 It's a miracle.
 It's a miracle? Why don't you go back to your prior knoweldge here. What did we say... You didn't answer some of those, but what do you think... Obviously something is making CO2, right? 'Cause that started at six, right? If we hit carbon reset, look. It starts at six and six, we're even. If I hit play, look what's happening. What's happening to the CO2 level?
 It's getting bigger.
 Yeah, why is it getting bigger? Where's that CO2 coming from? Who's making it?
 The plants. [gasps]
 Okay, why are they making it?
 So they can live.
 Okay, what's that called? Like what process is that when they make CO2?
 Photosynthesis.
 Photosynthesis makes CO2?
 I guess.
 No.
 Isn't it cellular res-per-tation? Ms. Rutala, isn't it that?
 Respiration. You know how we talked about this? This is photosynthesis, right? Carbon dioxide plus water in the sun is going to make glucose and oxygen, right? For respiration, they're taking that exact same glucose and that oxygen, and they're making three things. They're going to make energy to stay alive. That's why those plants are still living. They're going to make...
 CO2.
 Which is why...
 They're still living.
 Uh huh.  And why there's a high number in there, and they're also going to make...
 H2O, which is water.
 Does that make sense? Do you see now why those numbers are going up for CO2?
 Yeah.
 'Cause they're going through...
 Photosynthesis.
 No.
 'Cause their going through the energy.
 CO2.
 Respiration. Respiration is the process. Do you see that?
 Yeah.
 All right, you're welcome. All right, how are we doing here?
 Good.
 You guys are still ready to predict the second part? Okay, how are we doing here?
 We just now got to the back.
 That's okay, you take your time. This is good. Take your time as long as you are understanding. That's the whole point of this. Okay, so move on to this one. What is a new question you have or an experiment you would want to do?
 The snail one.
 Well, what's the snail one? What's a question you have based on what you just did? Are you curious about something? What's a new question or a new experiment you'd want to try?
 How come, well, I just want to know why the snail keeps dying.
 Okay, you can put that down. Why does the snail keep dying? Did it die in every single situaiton though?
 No.
 Everyone we've done so far.
 You might want to think about why, which situations it died in, right? All right, let's see. Put your head up. All right, you guys are still in this one? Test tube C2 has plants and snails, but resulted in an unstable environment, why? I thought plants and snails helped each other live. Why did they die?
 Because they didn't have that much, what's it called, oxygen.
 Well, when they started the test tube it was at six and six. All of them start at six, six, right? So look at test tube C2. To plants, two snails. The lights are...
 Off.
 The O2 level at the end of the experiment is?
 12, oh, oh.
 It's at what?
 Zero point --
 Zero point zero, which means there is no oxygen, so does that make sense as to why one of these died?
 The snail was the one. The snails died.
 Uh huh, and then the CO2 level is at?
 12.
 12, did the plants die?
 No.
 Why didn't they die but the snails died?
 Because the snails gave off their CO2?
 Um hmm And why did that keep the plants alive?
 Because they take in CO2?
 Uh huh, okay.
 But it somehow they didn't give off O2, I guess?
 Why is that somehow? Why weren't they able to give off O2?
 Because the lights weren't on?
 Uh huh, and why are the lights so important?
 To produce photosynthesis?
 Yes, they need light for photosynthesis. Remember, this is like a recipe, right? You have to have all three ingredients to make photosynthesis work. You have to have carbon dioxide, you have to have water, and you have to have sunlight. You can't just have one of the three. You can't have two of the three. You have to have all three. Do you see why that works? Okay, good.
 Um hmm.
 Okay, good. All right, how are we doing here?
 We're passing. Let me ask you --
 Yeah? I did not --
 She was in the bathroom.
 I went to go blow my nose.
 All right, let's go ahead and work over here. So let's go ahead and catchup ourselves here. What is one new question you have or experiment you would preform? So based on what you've already done is there something you are curious about? I just gave you free reign. Go ahead, do whatever you want. Do you have any questions about anything?
 Yeah, E.
 Stay here.
 Yeah, I'll stay here while you write it down.
 Why do they have to close it up? Close the test tubes up?
 Okay, so would you be curious about doing the experiment without closing it? That's a good question. What was your question?
 Every four plants and four snails. Would they survive with the lights on or off?
 What do you think?
 I think with the lights off because if they have four plants, they will have, I mean, if they had it on, they'll produce a lot of oxygen, therefore, the snails would die, but if you put it off, maybe they'll produce the right amount of oxygen.
 They'll produce a lot of oxygen, the snails will die?
 Well, it's kind of complicated.
 No, I want to try it out. You're saying that you think that --
 Because it's too much oxygen.
 Too much oxygen?
 In this one container, maybe?
 Well, who would benefit from all that oxygen?
 The snails.
 Okay.  So we know the snails would stay alive 'cause they would have what?
 Oxygen.
 Okay, what about the plants? Do you think the plants are going to stay alive?
 Nope.
 Why?
 Because they don't have carbon dioxide, maybe. [Background Chatter]
 How's the situation so far?
 Good.
 I think it's bad.
 Probably it won't survive because --
 So, in the light it's okay. It's balanced. One's giving, the other one's getting. You got that, all right? So what do you think is going to happen at night?
 They're going to die, probably.
 Who's going to die?
 The snails.
 Why do you think the snails are going to die?
 I don't know.
 Because it's going to be too much CO2.
 Too much CO2? Why is there going to be too much CO2?
 Because the snails can't get O2 'cause there's no light.
 Exactly. Go ahead and hit play.
 Whoa, whoa. [laughter] Too much CO2.
 Did that CO2, what did you notice about it?
 And the plants died.
 There was no oxygen.
 There was no oxygen, but why did the plants die? Plants don't need oxygen. Plants need CO2.
 There was too much?
 They couldn't give off --
 It already was at the max?
 Reached it's max. Here's my question. Are the snails the only ones making CO2? Who else is making CO2?
 The plants?
 Do plants make CO2 at night? How could you design a little experiment to test that? What can you do to design an experiment right now to test that?
 Take all the snails out.
 Okay, and what? [Background Chatter]
 Okay, let's see. We want to see if plants will go through respiration at night. [Background Chatter]
 We're looking for the CO2 only?
 What is that?
 A rock. [Background Chatter] Okay, so look at your data so far. What do you notice?
 They're producing a lot of oxygen.
 I'm following.
 Okay, so isn't that weird? I thought plants made oxygen.
 I mean, they're producing a lot of carbon dioxide.
 They are? Why are they producing carbon dioxide? I thought plants made oxygen.
 Wasn't it through respiration?
 Okay, so they can't get sunlight, so they're not going through...
 Photosynthesis.
 Photosynthesis, but they are going through...
 Respiration.
 Respiration, so remember, our respiration, right? They don't have sunlight. Does respiration need sunlight to work?
 No, it needs energy.
 Nope, it doesn't. So all they need is what?
 CO2.
 No, what does this stand for?
 Glucose.
 Right, so they need glucose and?
 Oxygen.
 Was there oxygen in there before we started.
 No.
 There wasn't?
 Oh, wait, yes.
 There was, look.
 It's even.
 There was oxygen in there. There was six cpms of oxygen, so then it went through this process, and it made energy, which kept them alive, it made CO2, which you saw because the CO2 levels went...
 Up.
 Up.
 And it also made...
 Water.
 H2O.
 Which you can't really tell.
 It turned yellow.
 And it's probably still inside the cells. Does that make sense though? Okay, good. All right, how are we doing here? [Background Chatter] Are we almost done, you guys? Are you getting, you're understanding?
 A little.
 Okay, well, let me ask you something. Do plants go through respiration?
 Uh, yes.
 How do you know?
 'Cause they're color. It change colors.
 The plants change colors?
 No, the water.
 To what color?
 Dark blue.
 A dark blue?
 Like a darker blue.
 What does dark blue represent? Let's go back to the beginning part. What does dark blue tell you? Dark blue means that there's what? Low, dark blue means that there's low what? [Background Chatter]
 Okay, and you're telling me that respiration, sorry, that respiration. Plants go through respiration, right?
 Uh huh.
 So would there be a low amount of CO2, if it goes through respiration?
 No, no. It will be...
 Uh huh, so should it be blue?
 Yes, no, no, no, no. It'd be yellow.
 Uh huh, what kind of experiment did you do to show me that plants go through respiration? Tia, plants go through respiration.
 If you cut the lights on and cut the lights off, and if you cut the lights on, then the water turns blue because it's giving off oxygen. Cut the lights off, they won't go through respiration because they --
 They won't go through respiration?
 No, only photosynthesis because there will be no light for them.
 Stop, give me my paper.
 Okay, Tamara and Kelly O., please stop.
 And I have a question. Do you want us to do for our predictions, do you want us to do why or why not for both of them or just one?
 Even if they're different. Maybe one of your predictions your plants lived, maybe one of your predictions the plants die.
 Both of them lived
 Then you can just, why do you think both of them lived? All right, I have a quick question. Can you guys look over here for a second? [Background Chatter] Okay, Tya, over here. William, over here. Okay, how may of you guys, I want a couple people to share their predictions. What helped your, when you had the three plants that died, right? Most of you were surprised. You were like, "Wow, how did three plants die "with the lights on? "They had oxygen, they had a CO2, "and they died." Right, so you were surprised. What was your prediction? What did you set up as an experiment to help them survive? What did you predict? Nacora, give me one.
 I put three plants and one snail.
 Okay, so she said she put three plants, one snail. How many of you guys did three plants and one snail? Or a combination of plants and snails? Okay, why did you do that? Why did you do a combination of plants and snails, William?
 Because the snails will produce the CO2 while the plants would produce the O2.
 Okay, so he said the plants would produce O2, the snails would produce CO2. What's another option? What if I said, "You know what? "I'm gonna take all your snails." [gasp] Good luck keeping those plants alive, Keyon. If I take away all your snails, and I said, "Haha, "you have no snails to keep your plants alive." Should that be a problem.
 No.
 Okay, tell me why that wouldn't be a problem. Why would that not be a problem, Haley?
 Because all you have to do is put three plants in the dark.
 Okay, how is that going to help you? How is putting three plants in the dark? She said, "You can just turn off the lights." How would that be helpful?
 Because there's more CO2.
 Okay, more CO2. Why is there more CO2?
 I would say you can just put them in the light and the dark 'cause when they're in the light they do photosynthesis, and when they're in the dark, they do respiration.
 Okay, she said, "In the dark they use photosynthesis, "and in the dark they do respiration." Isaiah?
 Wouldn't you just turn the lights off?
 Okay, we just said we could turn the lights completely off. Here's another question. Do plants go through respiration?
 Yes.
 No. Okay, hold on. If you said no, why are you saying no they don't go through respiration.
 Because only animals go through respiration, and plants go through photosynthesis.
 Okay, Brandon, I want you to set up an experiment for me. Put one plant. Put one plant in your test tube and turn the lights off. Just one plant in the test tube and turn the lights off. How many people know what's going to happen? One plant in a test tube with the lights off? All right.
 Look at that.
 Okay, are the plants alive?
 Yes.
 Is there more oxygen then CO2?
 No.
 What is there more of?
 CO2.
 How is there more CO2 in there? It started at six and six. Why is there more CO2 in there?
 Respiration.
 Because it's not doing photosynthesis.
 Because it's not going through photosynthesis, but that means that our O2 shouldn't go up. Why is the CO2 going up? Why is the CO2 going up?
 Because in the dark the plants breath out CO2.
 Okay what is that process of them breathing out, their getting rid of CO2? What is that process? Kaleil, you kept saying it over and over.
 Respiration.
 All right, respiration. Here's another question. Do plants go through respiration in the day time?
 No.
 Photosynthesis.
 What does respiration give you as an animal? [Background Chatter]
 ATP, wait. ATP and... I don't want to look, no. And oxygen, no. Carbon dioxide.
 So, respiration gives your carbon dioxide. If you look up here, look. Elise, respiration gives you carbon dioxide, water, and energy, right? Do plants, when they're going through photosynthesis, do they make energy? Do you see energy in the photosynthesis equation?
 No.
 Okay, so how do they stay alive during the day? Do they die during the day and stay alive at night.
 No.
 Do they stay alive during the day and die at night?
 No.
 How do they stay alive the whole day long?
 They use the sun's energy.
 They use the what?
 The sun's energy.
 Okay, and then what do they do with that glucose? It just sits there 'cause glucose isn't energy yet.
 They have to turn into respoiration
 Oh, so do they go through respiration during the day?
 Yes.
 No. They have to or they would die. So they make their energy. They make glucose, but the glucose isn't energy, Isaiah, until they break it down in respiration, so do plants have to go through respiration during the day and night?
 Yes.
 Yes, do you go through respiration day and night.
 Yes.
 No. You don't?
 No. Do you die at night every time you go to sleep?
 That would be creepy.
 You reproduce every time you go at night?
 No, what?
 No, you stay alive all day long. [hushing] You stay alive all day long, Tamara. Plants stay alive all day long because they go through respiration. This is the key. Respiration. The key, Nikera, to getting the glucose for respiration is in...
 Photosynthesis.
 Photosynthesis. This is what keeps everything alive, but to get some of the ingredients for this, you need to go through this. Do you see why now we depend on each other? Ah, yes. Okay, understanding.
 So, we don't go through photosynthesis, just plants do, but plants go through both.
