 Okay, so what we're doing, is you guys are trying to figure out which one of these invisible tapes yeah, is the best. So, the first thing you gotta do is come up with a nice question for your problem, that you want to solve. Sharonda you wanna share what you've come up with?
 Which tape is the strongest?
 Which tape is the strongest, okay. Now see that's good because you don't like... We were discussing earlier you don't wanna say which tape is the best, because you really don't know what does the best mean? Strongest, stickiest, longest lasting but I like it, which one's the strongest? Do you ladies have any ideas?
 I said it was Scotch. Well we were gonna hang the same amount of tape up the edge of the table and stick a marble to the other side and see how long it holds the marble for and that's how you can determine which one is the strongest.
 [Voiceover] Okay so y'all have marbles?
 I have.
 You got some marbles, that sounds fine. So you're gonna do a sort of a time test, which one can last longest okay. That might work. You might wanna do a little test run tomorrow because if it's something where their gonna sit there, the tape's gonna sit there with a marble on it for be able to get that done. So you might wanna think about maybe adding marbles to see which one can hold the most or do something to the tape to make it drop the marble. I don't know what that might be. We're gonna come up with some more creative ideas.
 I was gonna maybe cut like, like this tape is cut halfway into it, to see how long it will hold with the marble on it.
 [Voiceover] Oh, once it's been cut.
 Yeah.
 That would be good, okay. But, and again you have to make sure that you cut each tape the same distance. You gotta be fair. So what about, give me a passionate sample hypothesis that y'all came up with.
 If the Scotch tape is the strongest then the marble will stay on it longer.
 [Voiceover] If the Scotch tape is the strongest, then the marble will stick to it longer. So in your hypothesis you're mentioning the type of tape, and you're mentioning what you're measuring. Okay.
 I'm having trouble finding the group control experimental manipulator.
 Okay, remember think about your variables think about the, especially for your manipulated variable what you're changing between the groups.
 [Voiceover] The tape.
 Yeah the types of tape.
 I understand.
 Okay, I'll come back and we'll discuss the other ones. (students talking)
 Alright guys, Josh,
 Sir?
 since y'all have already been working a little bit give me a sample question, what you're problem is, the question that you guys came up with.
 Our problem it was, which paper towel sucks up more water?
 [Voiceover] Okay so you ...
 Absorbs more water.
 Absorbs more water, or sucks up that's fine. We're just nice and simple, it means the same thing. So you guys are going straight for absorbency?
 [Voiceover] Yes sir.
 What about a hypothesis, Darren?
 If Brawny, Bounty and a name brand paper towel are tested then Brawny will absorb the most water.
 Nice and simple, nice and simple. See you mentioned all the different brands right in the beginning and then you picked one and said exactly what it would do better, absorb the most water. Okay, perfect. Now, have you got any idea how you're gonna test the absorbency? Any ideas about your procedure, what kind of method are you gonna follow, to figure out which one absorbs the most water?
 [Voiceover] (drowned out by background chatter) We're gonna use water.
 What do you need with water?
 Like water, we need water.
 We need water, yeah.  We need water, but how are you gonna use the water to test it?
 [Voiceover] First we'll get a measurement of how much water we have in a container. And then we'll put the towel in the container and see how well it sucks up the water. To see if the level drops and we'll measure it from there.
 So you're saying put a known amount of water in some kind of container, and we've got tons of beakers we can use. Then put the paper towel in there, take it out. How long you gonna let it sit in there?
 [Voiceover] Like a minute.
 Well, you gotta know. You gotta come up with the time and it's gotta be right on. Cause you don't wanna leave Bounty in there for 10 seconds but Brawny for 40 seconds. That's not fair. You've gotta keep it equal. But that's the kind of stuff you've got to think about. You've got to be detailed. Alright, and then you're gonna measure what liquid is left in the container?
 [Voiceover] Yes.
 You can do that. Yeah, that'll work okay, nice and simple. So whichever one leaves the least amount of water behind should be the best as far as absorbency.
 [Voiceover] Yes.
 Okay.
 [Voiceover] For our procedure we're trying to think and like maybe you could put like three of the same stains on one sock and then test it without one.
 [Voiceover] You definitely need to use the same stain. You don't wanna have Zout going against coffee and Clorox fighting mud. That's definitely a good idea so, what kind of stains might you use?
 We'll use, what kind of (inaudible) we got?
 We can use food coloring.
 [Voiceover] Yeah, food coloring.
 I actually have some food coloring.
 Or we could use,
 [Voiceover] I got some barbecue sauce.
 Barbecue sauce? As long as you do not eat it during the lab. That's fine, I like that. Because that's more natural, I mean.
 [Voiceover] Ketchup.
 And that's already measured for you, like in packets that may not be a bad idea.
 Or mustard.
 Maybe yeah, now if you're gonna do those kind of liquids we'll have to find a way to measure it.
 [Voiceover] We can use hot sauce.
 Or hot sauce. Okay that works, that is more liquidy that might actually work. Because we can pour it out we can use pipes or you can use pipets or beakers or something to measure it out so that each sock gets the same amount. You don't wanna, again don't wanna put twice as much hot sauce for this to fight than this one, that's not fair.
 Yes sir. Okay, what kind of hypothesis?
 Our hypothesis was if we test all three samples,
 Test all three. and then I believe that the Clorox will remove the stain faster.
 So you're picking Clorox, why'd you pick that?
 Because the Clorox is sponsored by more, (laughs) by more varieties of stain removers and they beat...
 So in other words you've seen commercials about it?
 Yes sir.
 So you're taking what you know, inferences like we talked about, talking about what you know and making a prediction. This one seems familiar, have you heard of Zout?
 No sir.
 Okay most people say they haven't. I don't know why.
 [Voiceover] I picked the same one because that's the only one I'd heard of.
 And the reason why we said...
 Instead of using a marble which I forgot at home and we used weights, but they were way too heavy. So we put a glue stick on a piece of each tape that was about 10 centimeters long, and we made a cut in it that was one centimeter because one half centimeter was too steep or thick. And then we recorded it and we found that the first one that dropped was this one which was a second, it didn't hold on at all. And then this one was 17 seconds and then Scotch proving to be the strongest dropped at 79 seconds.
 [Voiceover] 79 seconds alright cool. So what does that data then tell you, Sharonda? You said when you collected it, what are you, looking at what you found out with your data? What does it prove?
 That the Scotch tape is better.
 And it's not even close. So I like how you guys have chosen to use a bar graph because I can just look at it, I can just look at it and go wow look at that. The bar is up so huge compared to the other two. Okay so it's very easy to distinguish which one did the best. Okay. Did you find maybe, ladies, that you had any kind of error?
 [Voiceover] Well yeah, the first time I cut into the tape I cut too deep like twice.
 Cut too deep?
 Yea, and then we found out the weights just tore right away. They were way too heavy. They wouldn't even hold on when I let go.
 [Voiceover] So you're very careful about making it drop.
 Yeah.
 Alright, cool. Okay so what kind of data are you collecting Mark? I mean what kind of data are you guys trying to put together?
 We trying to figure our which one is stronger, which one would last the longest.
 Right now we're seeing which one lasts the longest for how many times we rinse it. This is the first time we're rinsing it and then we're trying to wipe it up again.
 [Voiceover] Okay and this is still the...
 This is still corn syrup.
 Still the corn syrup. Okay cool, alright that'll work. So how are you gonna organize this?
 I'll chart a graph, and we're gonna see how, which one tears first on which rinse.
 [Voiceover] So you're just going straight up by the numbers, before it rips. Kind of simple so that gives you, that generates you some numbers to use, okay. Alright. Michael, did you guys, I know you're still kind of in the middle of collecting your data. Anything you see that can be done better, something maybe you made an error with? Something that seems to not be working like you expected?
 Dropping this one.
 [Voiceover] Okay.
 That was one.
 [Voiceover] That was one alright, anything else? Maybe that you're noticing with your, anything that you're noticing with your procedure that you could, to make it?
 This guy could help out a little bit more.
 We could've put this stuff in a little beaker thing, would've made it easier.
 [Voiceover] Put what in the beaker?
 Our solutions and stuff so we could've put it in there. That way we have an exact measurement.
 [Voiceover] That's true, okay so what, what you're saying is that your experiment may have some errors because you don't really know what's left?
 We got measurments but we don't have exact measurements.
 [Voiceover] So you think it would've been better to do that, if you were to do it again that's what you might do? Okay, alright cool. Carry on. (background chatter) Okay, hi Jeff and Keosha. Alright so you're right in the middle of collecting your data. Do you have a, have you come up with a data table yet? Designed how you want it to look? Not yet, how do you think you want to? You gotta make it organized when you put your data in. How you gonna write it down? Any ideas?
 What about a graph?
 Well, you're definitely gonna have a graph too. But you also need a data table to record it, now that you're starting to get some results.
 I don't know to do that, like.
 [Voiceover] Okay well we'll just think about it then, make something up. What do you think will be the easiest way to organize? Okay let's do this, what results are you looking for?
 The best thing, stain cleaner.
 [Voiceover] Okay, based on what, I mean what are you using as your rule to say that they clean the best? Color change or?
 Yeah.
 Okay.
 How much it took off.
 How much it took off, how are you gonna measure how much it took off?
 By, by the color.
 [Voiceover] Or do we need to use something?
 [Voiceover] I don't know, this is up to you guys. This is your experiment. What do you mean by the color?
 Like, how dark it went to light. From darkest to lightest.
 [Voiceover] Okay you do that, I mean you could compare it side by side. That's a good way, like a scale, sure. You got any other ideas? You could do that. Alright so let's just say you went straight up, we're gonna compare the original color to the new color. How can you organize that into a data table? What kind of information would you need to put in there?
 The color.
 Yeah, the color change. Okay, so the color changed. You definitely have to have the brands, you've gotta know which one did what. So how are you gonna write down the color change? How could you organize that into a chart?
 [Voiceover] That's hard.
 [Voiceover] I know, I know. I think you already told me the answer. What would you say you were looking for, what did you say you were looking for? The color change? How were you gonna compare it?
 [Voiceover] From darkest to lightest.
 [Voiceover] From darkest to lightest okay. So isn't this sorta like before, and after. So maybe you can have a, somewhere in your data table a column or a row where you're talking about what the color is before, describing it. So it's gonna be what kind of data since you're describing it?
 What kind of graph should we use?
 We'll get to that in a second. So what kind of data is that where you're just writing down like descriptions and colors? That's what we've been working on. We're not using numbers. (mumbling) Well, we'll get to the graph in a second. You know what kind of data it was where we, collect descriptions and colors and words? (chuckles) It's right there. Say it.
 It's (laughing). You've got a (making letter sound).
 Quantitative?
 Well that's numbers,
 Qualitative.
 Qualitative, so that's what you're doing. Now how you gonna put that in a graph? (background chatter)
 [Voiceover] From the darker shade to the lighter shade, right?
 [Voiceover] Decide what goes where.
 Okay that sounds good to me.
 [Voiceover] What kind of graph?
 [Voiceover] I don't know. If you're trying to compare and contrast these...
 Double bar graph?
 Sure. That would probably work. Okay here so, you guys have been working on which paper towel absorbs the most liquid. I see y'all have a data table that, nice and simple. Record how much water they...
 [Voiceover] Absorb.
 Absorb, how much water they absorb. And what kind of conclusion, Ms. Goodwin could you draw for your data?
 For my data I drew that Southern Homes had absorbed the most water. And then Brawny absorbed the next, (laughs) absorbed the next most. And then it was, Bounty was the last.
 Bounty came in last, but only barely.
 [Voiceover] Only by one.
 So, Josh.
 [Voiceover] Yes?
 Based on the results that your group got, how would you, how would that change your thinking? In other words, how might that change your shopping habits, if you had these to choose from? Well, I would pick Southern Homes more than any of the other brands because it absorbs more.
 [Voiceover] And isn't that what it's supposed to do?
 Yeah.
 Okay. So Darren, looking back at y'all's procedure looking back at your entire lab, is there anything that maybe if your were to redo this lab right, is there something you might would change about it to make it better or more accurate?
 Yes I would use different measurements of water, like three of them.
 [Voiceover] Three?
 Yes.
 You mean like repeated? Like maybe for each paper towel do it three times?
 Yes.
 Okay, alright, that's actually a pretty good idea because when you do those extra trials it helps to eliminate mistakes. Because you could've found out with these two being so close, if you would've had time to be able to do it two more times you could have found that maybe on average Bounty ended up beating Brawny, or vice versa you never know. Okay, Mia. What about, what about your hypothesis, was it right? Did you pick the correct one?
 No, I picked Brawny.
 Brawny, okay so what kind of new hypothesis, based on this? Let's say that you guys came up with a whole new idea, that was different from what you did this test. Like another whole procedure like Darren was saying, do it multiple times, maybe it's completely different. What kind of new hypothesis would you make, if you were gonna do a similar experiment with a twist to it?
 I would pick Southern Home.
 Just because it won this one?
 Yeah.
 Okay, so based on your results you might choose the same one. Anybody think they would choose a different one?
 [Voiceover] I'd still stay with the same one.
 Which was which one?
 Brawny.
 Why would you still pick Brawny?
 Because it was close it wasn't, it was like, it wasn't that close, but if we would've made like more, if we had tested it more then it would've probably stayed.
 And so do you think it's possible,
 It is possible.
 that if you did a completely different test, than just seeing which one sucked up water, maybe if you tested strength, Brawny could have won that one?
 Yes. I know it could.
 [Voiceover] Okay, cool. I like how y'all did the lab it was nice and simple. And other then Darren's error did you see anything that, anything else you would do differently? Anything else that you feel that you could have done better other than just maybe doing it extra times?
 [Voiceover] Test to see like how thick it is.
 [Voiceover] Test the thickness of the paper towel?
 Yes. (mumbling)
 [Voiceover] Are you straight? So in other words have a second type of test. Okay, sure.
 I'll probably change the temperature of the water.
 [Voiceover] Change the temperature of it?
 Yeah.
 [Voiceover] Oh, that's true. So you have to add in different variables because maybe one of them works better under
 Heat.
 [Voiceover] or lasts better under higher heat, okay. Cool, awesome.
 [Voiceover] Tim!
 It's okay Tim doesn't have to be over here. So let's see what kind of chart you have. Now explain this chart to me Deontay, because all I'm seeing is check marks.
 I did mine, I just did something simple.
 [Voiceover] Okay that's fine.
 I put my name right there and I put if it left a light stain I left a check mark and if it left a dark stain, I meant stain, I put a check mark.
 [Voiceover] Okay, so I see some of y'all are still working on your graphs and how you wanna display them.  Alright. So why did you choose a bar graph?
 So we can do like the levels of the stains, we got like medium.
 [Voiceover] Medium.
 Light and dark.
 Let me see. So you saying you're doing, you're going kind of like a qualitative data, light, medium, dark and you're just sort of shading up to the level you think that it had. Okay, how could you do that better? What might be a more reliable way to gather data? I mean the color change is okay, I mean the color change is fine because that's what you're looking for, right? When you buy a stain remover you wanna see that it takes the stain out. What might be some more reliable data you could gather, if you were to do this differently, for the future? You need to come up with a creative way to get better data or more data maybe?
 The more data we can get is by looking through the sock up under the sock to see how dark the color went through.
 Okay, so compare the levels and how much stain was pushed through the sock?
 Yes sir.
 Alright that'll work. What else?
 Or we can tell by if it's a light, if it's a ring around a light spot then we can tell if it cleared and if it clears some color off of it.
 So you're talking about maybe the shape of the stain or...
 Yes sir, the shape of the stain.
 Okay, possibly.
 And if it's a ring around it like this one right here, if it's a ring around it it's a light spot and we can tell it isn't't clean enough.
 [Voiceover] Alright, so how about this? Whose opinions did you use to get these scales?
 [Voiceover] I used my own for mine.
 [Voiceover] Okay. Cause they think that one was the best and I think this one was the best.
 [Voiceover] So, what might be, think about this what might be a better way, a more reliable way to get more data, than just your opinions?
 [Voiceover] Ask other people's opinions.
 [Voiceover] Ask other people. Again, if you were to redo it, do you think it would be a better idea to maybe ask some other people?
 [Voiceover] Yes, Like going around the class asking what they think?
 [Voiceover] Getting a vote.
 [Voiceover] Like a vote, like a survey?
 [Voiceover] Yeah a survey.
 [Voiceover] Or a vote, okay. Alright, last thing. Now that you've finished it, what kind of problems did you see? Is there something that okay, if I did this again, I know we could've had some error during this point, like we could've made a mistake here?
 We saw that, if we woulda let the colors and the stain remover sit a little longer, that it wouldn't have come out.
