 All right, so we're going to need someone from all the groups to kind of summarize for us.
 Grace?
 Guys, raise your hands. [chatter]
 So I figured... okay, you guys should [inaudible]. All right, I need everybody on the floor, and you two groups sit right here, okay? Everybody's on the floor, criss-cross applesauce, in five. Five, four, three two... and one. Okay. I need you to stay where you are and just turn around, and I'll just have the people come talk to me, and they'll talk to you, all right? We're going to start with... let's see. We're going to start with group one, all right? People from group one, raise your hand. Okay. Will you girls come up and tell me what you guys talked about? And I'm going to listen.
 Our question was, select three characteristics that you think is most important for school and tell why. So we had our score card, and it said stuff. So then the first one we did was my manners, because if you're nice, that means that you're polite, and then you get more friends.
 All right. Next?
 Following directions, because you won't have good behavior and you won't do good on a test if you don't follow directions and you don't do, like, your study guide, or study, then you won't do good on a test. And our last one is behavior in class, is because behavior is sort of like not listening, because then you probably won't listen if you're just doing, like...
 All right. Thank you. Now tell us, everybody, we're doing this, and everybody can answer. So how do you think that relates to a job? Behavior? Yes.
 If you have good behavior, then you'll get somebody to hire you, because you can work good.
 If you have good behavior, most likely you'll get hired, because you [inaudible]. Anybody else? Nobody else? Yes, ma'am.
 Um... it's sort of like what they said, but if you have good behavior when you're working your job, you won't get fired.
 Okay. You won't get fired. And, you know, good behavior is one of those things such as coming to work on time, okay? If there's nobody there to work your position, then your teammates have to pick up the work, or the work doesn't get done. Okay, group two, let's see. Lauren, go ahead, come up and read your question and answer, please.
 What is a non-traditional career for a male and a female? And, um...
 Go ahead.
 We wrote for a male, a fashion and a nail designer.
 That's right.
 And then for a female, a pilot and a car designer.
 Good, good. Can someone... thank you. Can someone give me some more ideas about some things...let's see. I'm going to call...I'm looking at colors. I'm going to pick somebody with this color on. And you can take your jacket off, and I'm still going to call your color, if it's your color, red. Give me a job that you think might be a non-traditional career. One for a woman. What did you... I mean, you can use the video as an example. You want to think about it?
 Construction worker.
 A construction worker as a woman. My color's red. Yes, sir.
 For a woman or a male?
 It could be for a male or female. Or you can, it doesn't even matter. Skyler.
 For a girl, maybe a football coach.
 For a female, definitely a football coach. If you guys watch Glee,  you see the football coach is a male, a female. And so, yeah. But now, Sakwan, we're going to go with you last, and then I'm going to go to group three.
 Um... for a male, probably a teacher?
 A male as a teacher. Exactly. So let's have Grace... not Grace.
 Alex.
 Alex.
 Mallory. Mallory, do you have a V under your name?
 Yes.
 You're from group three? So let's, let me read yours, and you guys answer. You can stay there. Let me read it, and you guys answer. So group three was, using what you have learned about non-traditional careers, what would you say to someone when they say that a boy can't do a job, or a girl can't? And I will just let you guys read.
 I would say that it doesn't matter if you're a male or a female, as long as you like your job and you can do your job well. Nobody can tell you that you can't do something just because you're a boy or a girl.
 Good. Does anybody disagree with that one? No? Does anybody agree with that statement? Okay. All right. Sakwan, come up, do, you guys are going to do number four, and we're going to move to the next activity.
 Our question is, what plans do we have for being successful in schoolwork? We wrote, do your homework, follow directions, paying attention, being respectful, good grades and not shouting loud. And the [inaudible] oh yeah. And don't have some, like, yelling or, like, stealing things, like...
 Report cards.
 Yeah, but, no.
 [inaudible]
 Yes.
 Well, we did a couple, like, [inaudible]. Writing is a little challenging. Reading, easy, some books.
 Okay. So they went with the idea of, you know, not too easy, not too hard. Good. Thank you. Now what we're going to do now is we're going to do some research on non-traditional careers. Now, some of you will be where the purple papers are. Some of you will be where the white ones are. And it's just so that you guys will be able to talk about this later and say, okay, this is what I experienced on a policy job, and this is what I experienced on the other one. So everybody point your attention to the front, and I'm going to go through one of the worksheets with you. I'm going to go through the harder worksheet with you, okay? Just point your attention to the front. And I'm going to go through this one with you, because this one is the hardest one, and then all the other ones are the easier ones. Okay, the worksheet that we're going to do today is going to tie in what you guys talked about with careers, subjects. When do you all get report cards?
 We got it yesterday.
 You got them yesterday. What I want you to do is I want you to think about your report card, your favorite subject, whether it be English, math, science, social studies, whether it be PE, art, whatever it is, and I want you to pick from this site. You see this site? It says www.bls.gov/k12/, okay? I want you to pick from that site your, what subject you did the best in, or what your best interest is. There are some of you, I know somebody here likes nature. They will pick nature, and in that job, if it's a boy, he's going to pick a job that he thinks mostly females have. Who thinks they can give me an idea of what job mostly females have? Molly?
 Maybe a veterinarian.
 A veterinarian. Most veterinarians I've seen have been female. So I would go there. And if I was a boy, I would read through this sheet. On this sheet, it has some questions. It says how to get ready. You'll find that tab, and you'll give me a summary of how they get ready for this job. It says what is this job like. You read that, and you'll give me a one or two sentence summary of what the job is like. And it says, are there other jobs like this? That's to the bottom. And you can write those jobs down. Another one says, what about the future? And you'll write a one or two minute summary of that section. Also, we have some reflection questions at the bottom of this worksheet, and the reflection question is, one is, what did I learn about careers? The other one is what's a non-traditional career, and the last one is what did I learn about myself? So make sure you answer all those questions in the worksheet. Now, if I was a girl and I went to nature, what job do you think I would pick Alea? What job do you think most boys have that's over here for nature?
 Zookeeper?
 Maybe a zookeeper. So the object of this is to do research in the area that you find most interesting. Is this what I have to be when I grow up, Mr. Nealy? No. You just have to do research in that area. So the big important part is to have research done in that area, just so that you can explore different jobs. And I think, was it group three that had that question?
 Yeah.
 Group four that had the question about what would you tell somebody? Who had that question?
 Us.
 Group three had that question, and I think you guys gave a pretty convincing argument. Okay, I'm going to tell you who's going to sit at the purple stations. If you're sitting at a purple station, you're going to click yes, you want sound. And your worksheet is already there. And I want us to compare and contrast the different information you get from the two worksheets. Okay, purple station. Skyler, go to a purple station. Mr. Y-...
