 ... and your ideas, and we're learning from each other, right? Because a lot of times, who do we learn from?
 You.
 Each other.
 You learn from me but who else do you learn from?
 Us. - You learn from each other. Okay, Kelly if you would move the book away from the projector so we can see the screen. We're going to watch another weather forecast, and as you're viewing this, I want you to pay really close attention to how she...
 Talks.
 How she speaks. Okay. As a good listener and a viewer, what are some things that we need to concentrate on while we're watching this?
 How she, her face, her expression and how she moves and looks.
 Okay, and how are you going to find out if she does those things?
 By watching her?
 You're going to be watching her, okay... Sarah?
 Watch how her body is moving because... (inaudible) Watch her eyes.
 Okay, catch your eye. And I like that you said watching. What are you doing while you're watching? Are you just staring at the screen?
 No. You are looking at them and you're making eye contact, and you're looking; you're watching their mouths because there are people who can't really hear, so they would read people's mouths, and that's really important to do.
 Anything else that you can do while you're viewing this?
 Listening.
 Okay, and how are you going to be listening? We talked about this a lot. How are we going to listen?
 With our ears and with our whole entire bodies.
 With our whole entire bodies. Why are we going to listen with our whole entire body? Naomi.
 Because if we're listening with our ears, then our hands are up here saying, "Oh, I've got something to say," then you're not really listening, you're not really listening competently.
 All right, can you go ahead and hit play for us, please? Yup, just like you did yesterday.
 Good afternoon, I'm Julie Wunder with your forecast. A north wind, five to ten miles per hour. Tonight 28, it's going to be partly cloudy out, and we can head to a 7-day forecast. About a 50 percent chance of rain transitioning over to some snow overnight Saturday and into Sunday. Temperatures fall next week, what a cold forecast we have. Coming up at 5 o'clock, we'll have the latest on that possibility of snow.
 Turn and talk to your buddy. We're going to do two right here, two, two, two...
 I noticed that under one of the clouds we had snow instead of rain. (inaudible)
 Turn your face...
 Okay and what kind of body language did she use?
 She was pointing and ... (Inaudible)
 So why do you think she was pointing like that? (inaudible)
 Okay.
 And because you saw her looking at you, did that make you listen any differently? (inaudible)
 Did it help you listen more or less? (inaudible)
 When she looked away, what was she doing? (inaudible)
 Alright, so why do you think she wasn't doing this? Okay like you say, she was like. Why is that? (Inaudible)
 Would you be listening as well if she were making those faces? Or would you (inaudible) her face?
 Right, not necessarily what she was saying but you were focusing on her expressions. (inaudible)
 Alright guys let's come back in three, two, and one. Okay, you guys had some amazing things that you saw when you watched this little clip.
 What kind of things did you notice? Tell me what you and your buddy were talking about.
 We used this chart. If she was just like there... she was pointing at it so then it made me understand more but if she was just like there... ?
 [Teacher] When you did your presentation, what did you feel like you were looking at?
 My poster.
 [Teacher] You looked at your poster the whole time? Okay, and the second time when you did your presentation again, you said you were really focusing on your eye contact, were you able to achieve that goal?
 No - [Teacher] No? Why not?
 Because I was looking at my poster again.
 [Teacher] You say you were looking at your poster again. Okay, why do you think you did that? Were you nervous? What do you think you could've done to ease that nervousness?
 Take a breath. - [Teacher] Going to take a breath? What do you guys think? What could Adrian have done to maybe be a little less nervous when he was doing his presentation?
 He could think about somewhere he was comfortable.
 Okay, think about somewhere where's he's comfortable.
 Picture everyone else in their underwear.
 Oh, underwear. Sarah.
 Be himself and just act like it's just any other day. (inaudible)
 The information we were presenting was it a little bit more in depth than what we usually talk about? What do you think? Was the topic you were sharing a little bit, you have a little bit more information than if you were just sitting here having a conversation?
 Yeah.
 So that make some of us nervous that we have a lot of information trying to remember?
 Yes.
 And then, was anyone able to get over that nervousness?
 Okay. Sarah, how were you guys able to get over that nervousness?
 I followed my goals and I just tried to be myself. I just followed my goals and I just had fun.
 Okay, do you want to show us part of your presentation where you did that?
 Mhmm.
 Avril, will you move the book away from the projector while she gets the computer ready? Alright, make sure you get to a spot where you can see. Got it?
 My project is about Legends of the (inaudible) I'm going to start over with Werewolves people think that ... I don't know why because wolves howl at the moon This is a werewolf, a full moon is sometimes called a Wolf's Moon... since its yellow (inaudible). This one is my favorite. It's about (inaudible) ... she calls her brother Helius to find her sister Herse. (inaudible) The study of geography to the moon is called Selenology. Okay this is ... (inaudible) This is vampires, vampires are said to come out on every moon except for new moon I guess because they can see better. This is a vampire person trying to get his girlfriend to become a vampire. This is people, people think (inaudible) to people that are aggressive and violent... (inaudible) This is a witch from... (inaudible)
 Okay turn to your buddy for a second. Do you think she was able; she said she acted like she was comfortable. Like it was just any other day.
 Yeah.
 Talk to your buddy about that. Do you think that she accomplished that goal?
 Yes. (inaudible)
 Because she's a pretty funny girl, right? Alright. Let's come back together. Let's come back together please. Alright. So her goal, she said that she wanted to be more comfortable. And she was just going to act like it was any other ...
 Day.
 Did she accomplish that?
 Yes.
 Okay. How do we know that she accomplished that? What do you think Arizona?
 [Arizona] Because she was really comfortable with her surroundings and those people just wanted to get their talking over with and done but Sarah actually talked like we were just talking face to face acting like the camera wasn't even there.
 Okay. And as a listener, how did Sarah's confidence make you listen better? Did it make you listen better or did it not make you listen better? It did? Okay. Why did it make you listen better, Levin?
 Because it was fun.
 Because it was fun? Okay. And what made it fun?
 She was acting like, the way she was acting
 The way she was acting? Okay. What did you think, Dillon?
 Because she's usually funny and she was being quite funny on this.
 Okay.
 And I like to... (inaudible)
 Yup. Alright, anybody else?
 What were some other goal that you guys created? Sit up and join the circle please. Alright, let's see. Someone I haven't heard from yet. Isabelle, what was one of your goals?
 One of my goals was to stop making really distracting movements because I was like twisting it and twirling it and I was really nervous.
 Alright so that was the first time you did your presentation, you felt you were doing too many movements.
 Yeah.
 And so your goal was to cut down on that and why did you choose that as a goal?
 Really, when we watched my first video, we decided that, (inaudible) she said that she was kind of watching that and she couldn't really have her attention stay on what I was saying.
 And did you agree with her?
 Mhmm.
 Okay, so what did you do with your second presentation?
 I really was concentr...
