 [Instructor] In my classroom, each student has their own individual workbench with a set of hand tools in the drawers, where they also may store their art and they've each made a back splash of art inspirational images. In the corner of the room, I have a resource area including images of art, books and magazines, a computer with an internet connection, and examples. I have a board where I give notes and it has a calendar with the semester at a glance. I have a demo table where we meet for discussions and group demonstrations. In the corner of the room, there's acid etching done safely with rubber gloves and goggles and a rubber apron. In front of that there's soldering with a acetylene tanks chained to the cabinet and a good ventilation system above, and also, eye protection and gloves. The sink area includes an emergency eyewash station and soaps. In the corner of the room, you see a fire extinguisher, a buffing machine, a hammering area done safely with a stump to limit the percussive nature of each blow, and ear protection, a drill press done safely with eye protection and gloves, an emergency eyewash station and shower, and first aid kit. In here, we have an enamelling area above banks of labeled cabinets with ventilation. And in the front, we have a bulletin board with notices and class rules and another fire extinguisher. This is another reason why people might own jewelry or want to have jewelry. Now this isn't jewelry per se You know what these are?
 Coins?
 Coins. There's such an interesting iconography of coins. I love the patterning that happened when he cast them. I mean, I just think its... You've got the horse. You've got the man. Some sort of a symbol. I don't really know what all the symbols are, but you could really use a lot of this. And do research symbols like for the production project that is coming up. And here people have even made jewelry out of the coins. And here art is an example of, in north Africa, a lot of times women, traditional women, it's probably changing now, but I don't really know how much it's changed or not changed. This picture is from 1988 or something, so it's in the past. But they would get a lot of their wealth from their family given to them as jewelry. And they'd wear it everyday. And it might seem ridiculous to us, you can do your farming, you're going about your business, cooking and you're wearing all that craziness, but that way it's on them, they have it, if something happens to their husband, nobody can take it away because it's on their body. It's protected. It's also very obvious. If the husband were to steal the money, and take it away, they would know because she's not wearing it. So he would be shamed. So it's sort of... it's like the dowry, the money comes into the family from the woman's parents, but it's also to help protect the woman. It's not just... it's not just to go to the husband. So I think it's amusing that they're wearing it.
 I thought they weren't allowed to wear makeup.
 Well, it depends in what part of-- where you are. I mean, are you thinking who is they?
 I'm thinking Iran and stuff, and north Africa.
 Right. Iran, there's different sects of Islam and what people believe as really strict is different. In this, north Africa... Iran's more in the Middle East, getting closer... I mean, does it even... even in Asia, it might even be Asia.
 No, it's not in north Africa.
 It's not in Africa. So this is like... north Africa, there's a lot of tribal groups that were nomads in the desert. It's all intermixed. And people in southern Africa, like in Sudan are predominantly Islamic and they have a different take on it, too. So maybe in Iran it's frowned upon as vanity, but...
 The Muslim culture requires women to cover their faces. It's not Muslim religions that only...
 It's Arabian.
 That's very good, Chloe. Very, very astute.
 It's there traditions. It's not required by the religion, it's a cultural thing.
 That's good. That's a good clarification. I didn't think of it that way. So also, this redeemable investment or wealth, people like to and they have people over for dinner.
 Golden silverware?
 On the right, that was the silverware of Marie Antoinette.
 I've never heard of gold silverware.
 So gold, I know, they're eating on gold. And it can't be 24 carat, because it would be too soft. But it's probably a gold alloy. And there's also cases of people when times get tough, melting down their silverware.
 So they can have the...
 Yeah, and you use that as your... it's like people nowadays are investing in gold. They're buying gold bars, because it's like you own something. You see it. It's not just a piece of paper that says you own something.
 Yeah, I think there's commercials about buying gold.
 And this is a chalice through the church. The church accumulated a lot of wealth, specifically, the Catholic church during the Medieval times. And they would have it made into these things like the chalice for the blood. Okay, attraction and beauty. This is pretty obvious, because where do people usually wear jewelry?
 On their necks and faces and...
 Yeah, yeah, to draw attention, I think, to the face usually is a big deal. And also, this is an example of a Cartier necklace that was a gift from a man to a woman. So a lot of times, it's with the idea of love, or commitment, romantic love. Here we have Indians from India, and these are things that you can buy. This is just off of that. So this is like the traditional wedding where you've got kind of an inexpensive version, perhaps, that you can buy. There's all sorts... there's all levels of expense that you can buy. And here we are again with north Africa. Just kind of thinking about the different ideas of what is beautiful and what isn't beautiful. I don't know. How many of you have tattoos? Any of you have a tattoo?
 I wish.
 Okay, I mean you're a little bit young. Right? Do you think you might want a tattoo at some point?
 Yeah, my friend has a whole entire paragraph on her back.
 Really? Do you like it?
 Yeah, it's really pretty, but I wouldn't want something like that. Yeah.
 I don't remember what it says... Something, it has to do with swimming, I think.
 It's like swimming.
 In some way. It's a really good quote, though.
 Yeah, she looks like that girl from Avatar.
 You know, I haven't seen Avatar, but as a movie designer, James Cameron, what do you think he was looking at to get inspiration for the movie?
 Probably... [Background Chatter]
 If you, I mean, does anybody like Star Wars? That was a popular kind of thing. But you know, I always wanted the hair braids. "Mom, mom, please." She's like, "Your hair isn't long enough. That was a movie. They had... it was a wig." I was like, "Do it. Do it."
 I braid my hair, put beads in it sometimes.
 There are cultures that wear their hair like that. So it's like nothing is sort of new under the sun. People are reinventing what's already happened.
 I always wanted it just like Pocahontas that's the entire story. [Background Chatter]
 The second time I saw it, I was like, "Oh, this is really bad." One thing, they represented it wrong, that's like the reason they were there because it was very valuable...
 Oh, so you're thinking it could have been a little more creative? [Background Chatter] [Background Chatter]
 You know, the first time you see it, it's so good. And then the second time you're like, "Hey, now that I've seen this..."
 So it's good to critique pop culture to determine. If you get a job in the movies, how would you do it better or differently?
 I'd do a different plot. I'd be more creative. [Background Chatter]
 Okay, yeah, we better... I'm gonna keep moving on. All right? Okay, so here we have ancient Egypt on the left and we have Miss South Carolina 2000, I can't remember, 2004, 2006, recently. Isn't it interesting how similar the eye, the eyeliner, the long eyebrow, the hair coming down, the crown? You know, I mean...
 I think the eyebrows [inaudible].
 Well, she doesn't have the... [Background Chatter]
 I'm trying to create a bead kind of thing.
 Okay.
 Melting the stuff Drew was using for his corset together.
 Oh, the screen? So you're melting the screen? Oh, interesting. So how will you use that in your... ?
 I'm thinking I can use it in attaching, because I think it would look cool if there was something kind of like that, not gold and shell-ish.
 Okay. Okay, well, do you want to go look at your stuff? Or do you want to... or you feel like you need to finish that?
 Oh, no, that's fine. [Background Chatter]
 There appears to be no blue stuff.
 Oh, the pickle? It's new.
 Oh.
 It only gets blue from the copper, so it, it does have pickle in it. It's just fresh and new. So you could, you could... see that little yogurt container? You can put it in that, and that has holes in it, and then you can just kind of let that float. Just kind of put a little in there. Like tip it. Yeah, that's good. Okay, yeah, let's go look at your... Oh, should we look at those? Would you rather do those, or... Okay, let's go... [Background Chatter] Sorry, we're going outside now.
 Okay. [Background noises and wind]
 Oh, wow. What do you think?
 I like them. I really like them as not a shell color, because they don't seem...
 Can I touch it? Sorry, I touched it before I asked you.
 I think once you like...as I did, just find the shell along the stream.
 Right, you're transforming it. I really like the shell of the spray paint too, because it helps tie it in with the metal. It makes... well, it's metallic spray paint, so it seems really metal-y, yeah. Right. Cool. And it makes it a little bit more blingy. You know?
 And I like how it reflects the light, all the cracks, and stuff.
 Yes, it gives it a unifying presence instead of having all that color variation. Especially if you think about having one necklace that has many shells on it. Then this unifies them. It makes them probably a little bit more wearable with people's clothes. Do you think? About how would you, how will you attach... are you thinking of using these in one group? Or are they more pendants?
 I think they're more like pendants, and I was gonna poke a hole.
 Okay.
 Like two holes in them, and I was gonna use a bunch of different strings together. So it's kind of like. . .and they're right there. And maybe bead it, a bunch of beaded strings.
 So really, this is like one necklace that's... or is it many necklaces that people can layer?
 It's just one necklace.
 Okay, all right. Well let's... can we go look at your sketch book, too? The other thing is, next time it would be better, I think, to drill the hole first before you paint it.
 Okay.
 Because I'm afraid the paint might scratch in the process of drilling the hole.
 I was going to just poke a hole with a needle.
 Can you do that?
 I think so. I mean, they're really a lot more soft than metal.
 Oh, okay, well try it, and see if it works. But I have a diamond drill bit. It can drill and that's what Drew has been using to drill his glass and stuff.
 Okay, and also, most of these already have holes.
 Oh, yeah, because of the creature that eats the muscle.
 Yeah.
 I love the hole that's already in there, yeah, okay. All right, let's go look at that. These probably need to dry a little more.
 Yes.
 Okay, okay, let's go in.
 There's only five more minutes on here.
 Okay, that's good. We'll get this and that'll be okay. [Background workshop noises and chatter]
 Oh, look at that. See, that's amazing to me, because whenever I find coquinas, I guess I find the live coquinas. I've never seen the shells, like just the shells. But they all have a hole. This is a great find.
 I got my back so sunburned gathering all of these on the beach.
 Yes.
 Because they all lay next to each other in the sand.
 And when you, I mean, now do you have sketches of how these might be transformed into jewelry?
 I'm not sure yet, because...
 Here, I'll come over... is this better like this?
 Yeah.
 I could use like... I could put them all together on one string, on one necklace. Sort of like the coral. But I don't know. I don't think I have enough for that from reproduction.
 Well, you have a lot. What might be better, right, because, you're right. Because then they would nest. Right? If you just put with cubicle, then they don't take up much space. What if you made a bunch jump rings with thin wire, and then you have a little jump ring that would go through each one. And that could put... see how you have sort of charms on your chain? You could... these could also be sort of like charms hanging down, and you could layer them maybe with a jump ring, could have a little chain. And it could hang down to vary the length or, or you said that you like to use... did you make your necklace that's woven there? That's, okay, you, but you know how to sew? So could you sew them on something?
 I could, yeah.
 I mean, I have some leather strip, and that would be keeping with natural materials. So that might be interesting. I don't know. I... well, I think what you need to do is to experiment, sew some, do some metal through some, and then maybe lay some out. And you can see how Chloe has hers laid out in that box, so that she can keep it. I think you'd need a box or a tray, and you could sort of lay it out so you can start to see the composition of them.
 Yeah.
 Now what are these?
 Those are... 
 Oh, and these are a dove's feathers.
 They're so elegant.
 Yes.
 Now do you have your sketch book? Can we look at the sketch on how you thought you might do this? [Background Chatter]
 Here, I think I got it.
 Here you go. I could do this with the shell.
 Oh, because that's hanging off. And then what is this round ring part?
 I'm not sure. It could just be like a round, golden...
 It could be a soldered ring of metal, like brass, wire soldered together. Is this an earring?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 That may be for these.
 Right.
 That was... that's what I was planning to do with the shell. For that, I could do a bunch of different strings, or I could just do one string and put two of these sort of up the string, or something.
 Right, right, asymmetry. Okay, I like it. And then this is the feather? These are jump rings and this is the feather.
