(background chatter)
 What if it comes from like a polluted creek or something, or some kind of bad water system in the ground?
 Number three... (inaudible).
 I say crystal clear and filtered.
 I said how dirty the water gets.
 How good the water is for you?
(background chatter)
 It doesn't have stuff dying in it, it's crystal clear and it doesn't smell.
 [Teacher] Okay, class, if we can pull back together please, as a group, I was hearing excellent discussions between each of the three questions, and I think we have some very valuable points to go ahead and talk about. So, what we're gonna do is kind of create a little bit of a list up here, to help us remind later when I go to show you something. So, we're gonna start again with that first question, and I'm looking for you to participate and share some of those questions together. So, it says again, how do you know if water is safe or not? And I heard wonderful responses, so can I hear some of those please? Brandon, please start us.
 Color and odor.
 [Teacher] Okay, so you know if water is safe or not depending on again, the color and the odor. Good, what are some other responses? Brandon?
 Remember where you got it from. Like, if it was in a creek that looks fine, it's probably safe to drink, but if it's from a polluted creek that has a really weird color to it, or it's in a weird location, don't drink it.
 Okay, so I'm commenting here, I have, it depends on the source you're getting it from, and so if it's a creek that looks to be clean or clear, then you know it's probably okay? And if it looks to have like a weird color, I think you mentioned again to it, or polluted or in a weird location, then maybe it's not safe. All right, what were some of your other responses? Jack.
 Um, if it goes through a quality filter?
 Okay, if it goes through a quality filter. And Jack, can you maybe think of an example of a quality filter?
 A Culligan filter for the drinking water?
 Okay, so a Culligan filter that you can use to filter out the water. Okay, good. Madeline?
 There's no large pieces of trash or anything in the water?
 [Teacher] Okay, so you can look for visible signs of large trash, and Madeline, what was the second part of that?
 Nothing that looks unnatural in it.
 [Teacher] Okay, so nothing that looks unnatural. Great. Anybody else, any answers for number one? Again, how do you know if it's safe or not? Lexi, I think you had another answer that may have been covered up here. What did you say when I was talking with your group about... ?
 The smell?
 [Teacher] Okay, the smell, again, the odor of it. Okay, great. Brandon, you thought of another one?
 If there's something dead in it.
 [Teacher] If there's something dead in it, so again, we're going based on those visual aspects of it. Good. Well, we're gonna come back to that here in just a moment, so we'll move on to number two. When are times when the water might not be safe? Walker?
 After an earthquake or another disaster?
 [Teacher] Okay, so after an earthquake. And Walker, can I have you expand a little bit? What would be so significant after an earthquake or another disaster that would make the water not safe?
 Because maybe something fell in the water, or, I don't know, I just heard that before.
 [Teacher] Okay, so you heard it before, and if something fell in the water. Did you happen to see at all, in Japan after the tsunami came through there? Do you remember any of those images?
 Yeah kinda, they were different colors and yeah...
 [Teacher] Okay, and I think I heard somebody else say that they remembered seeing a point that maybe we can add onto. Elvis?
 [Elvis] At the beach.
 [Teacher] At the beach? What do you mean by "at the beach?"
 There's different times where the water might not be safe.
 [Teacher] Okay, can you think of a specific example, like have you experienced a time when you weren't allowed to be at the beach?
 When somethings dangerous in the water.
 [Teacher] Okay, if something's dangerous in the water. Sometimes they might tell you that it's not safe to be there. Okay. Any other times that might make the water not safe? Amelia, can you think of any times where the water might not be safe?
 I have, after storms, like um, Walker did.
 [Teacher] Okay, what are some things then, because this is something I'm hearing so far. What are some things after the storm that might be in the water besides, I think you said some stuff can fall in the water. What are some of the things that might be in the water that would make it not safe? Aashi, can you think of something that might get in the water?
 Um, like tree branches or animals?
 [Teacher] Okay, so tree branches and animals, that's good. Can you think of anything else that might get in the water that maybe wouldn't normally be there? Kris?
 Trash?
 [Teacher] Trash, okay. Can you think of a specific kind of trash? Lexi?
 Glass?
 [Teacher] Glass. And what would be the danger of glass getting in the water?
 It's sharp and can cut yourself.
 [Teacher] Okay, so there's a chance of getting injured if you cut yourself. What else... think outside the box a little bit more. What else could get in the water that you would not normally want in your water? Madeline?
 Plastic bags and then you can suffocate animals.
 [Teacher] Okay, so plastic bags that they suffocate animals, something along those lines. Elvis?
 Oil and gasoline?
 [Teacher] Oil and gasoline, good. Brandon?
 Toxins.
 [Teacher] Toxins, okay. Jack?
 Plastic six-pack holders? Because it strangles the fish and everything.
 [Teacher] Okay, now lets think... I'm glad you guys are all concerned about the fish and the animals and all of that, but what about we as humans, can you think of anything that would get in the water that would be potentially harmful to us afterward? Go ahead.
 Pesticides?
 Pesticides, okay. Brandon?
 Fertilizer?
 [Teacher] Fertilizers. Elvis?
 A car? What is it again?
 A car.
 [Teacher] A car, okay. All right, well we'll come back to those in just a minute. So, looking at... we've kind of come up with a list here of how you would determine if things are safe or not. So, then I guess my question would become, if you look at it's color and you look at if it's in a source that looks safe or not, how would you be able to determine if something is safe to drink? So, maybe that might change your perspective a little bit. So, is there a difference between being able to drink something, and maybe being able to swim in something? In fact, let me give you just a minute to talk about that with your partner for a minute. so, my question to you again, is it... are there different things we should look for in water that we drink, versus maybe water that we swim in or take a shower in? And I want you to talk about that with your partner and jot down a couple notes about that, so go ahead.
 (students talking with each other)
(background chatter)
 [Student] That's interesting to hear you saying shower water isn't as filtered as your drinking water.
 Our pool is safe, they put a water cover over our pool so it was different. At our pool they changed from... too much chlorine can burn people's eyes, so they changed it. Yeah, definitely a bigger job, but they put a small amount of chlorine in it, so all the bacteria that's on us, if you go swim in the pool it wouldn't matter, as opposed to in the shower because it's different.
 Even if you do have a water cover, still it could seep through, and that's how they clean it.
 When they open the pool it takes like a month, because they have to go through the water thing, and all the filters.
 [Teacher] Okay, we'll come back together as a group one more time. Thank you all, again I hear great discussions going on. So, let's talk about this. There's some very neat ideas of whether you think something is safe to drink versus whether or not it's okay to shower or to swim in. So, what were some comments you were talking about in your smaller groups? Again, I heard some great discussions going on. Mikenna, what did your group talk about?
 Shower water isn't as filtered as drinking water.
 [Teacher] Okay, so in their group they believe that shower water was not as filtered as what the water is that you drink in, so if it's not as filtered, where would your drinking water be coming from that maybe your shower water isn't coming from? Okay, is there a reason that maybe you thought along sometime where the shower water is not as filtered as your drinking water?
 No.
 [Teacher] No, okay. It just makes sense to you that maybe the stuff that comes out of the tap to drink, is not necessarily the same thing coming out of your pipes for the shower? Okay, what were some other comments about that? Larry, what did you guys talk about?
 (inaudible)
 (beeping)
 [Announcer on loud speaker] May I have your attention please?
 Would all Spelling Bee winners please report to the auditorium at this time for the Spelling Bee. Again, all Spelling Bee winners please report to the auditorium at this time for the Spelling Bee. Thank you.
 [Teacher] Okay, so Larry, to expand upon that, and I think he brought up a really good point. He said that maybe the water that you... were you saying, Larry, swimming or showering?
 [Isaiah] He was saying that the water we drink...
 Hold on just one second, Isaiah, just one second.
 (inaudible)
 Okay good, I wanted to make sure I wasn't saying it incorrectly. So, what he was saying is, in other words, when you shower or when you are going swimming, that water is not necessarily going in your body, you're not consuming that water, so there would be a difference possibly, between the water you're swimming in versus the water that you're drinking. Walker?
 I said that you would swim in darker water than you drink or shower in.
 Okay, so sometimes you think that the water you've been in when you swim is darker. So, going back to the color difference that talked about here. Okay, interesting. Lexi?
 The shower water and the water that we drink I think is sort of the same, but they go through a different process, but if we go swimming at our community pool, it's different because there's more chlorine and stuff, so you have bacteria on you and you're just swimming, you not really intaking it. But at your house when you drink or take a shower, it's different.
 [Teacher] Okay. Would you say that... Because I think it's probably safe to say you guys mostly agree that there is a difference between drinking water and water you would shower in versus water that maybe you would go swimming in. So, what are some of those differences? What might be... what might they have to do to that water? Lexi was talking about maybe it would have to be treated differently, or that there would be chemicals added to it. So, can you think of what they would do to the water in a swimming pool, versus water that you drink to make it different? I think Jack mentioned about filtering, and Mikenna also brought up the point about it being filtered different. Brandon?
 Well, they put more chemicals in the swimming pool, because there's gonna be more germs and when people swim in it, so that will kill off the germs. As in drinking water is not as much chemicals because there's not really any germs, you're just drinking it, so...
 Okay, good. So, what I'm hearing is the amount of something..., so would you all agree, as a class, if we were to drink swimming water, would you die?
 [All] No.
 No, probably not, right? But the amount of the chemical that is in the water might be something that would cause some effects or cause some harm to you. So, do you think that there is chlorine in your drinking water? Because we said it's in the swimming pool probably to help kill off bacteria. Do you think that... and I'm hearing a little bit of a disagreeance here, so I'd love to hear your conversation in just a minute. Elvis, what do you think?
 There is chlorine in the drinking water, but then they purify it, so...
 [Teacher] So they purify out the chlorine after they put the chlorine into the drinking water?
 Yeah.
 [Teacher] Okay, good. And Isaiah, what were you thinking about? I think you were saying no, that there isn't the chlorine.
 My question is, if there was chlorine in drinking water, I mean, you can purify it, but it may still stay around that water, then why would you drink it? I mean, sure, it can knock out the bacteria and germs, but why drink it if it has chlorine in it? Because that's not good for you.
 [Teacher] Okay, and going back to the amounts of it, and you're thinking that even the smallest amount might not be healthy for you to put in your system. Okay, Jack?
 Well, for a normal tap system, I think it's the last, or second last step they do, is they insert really small amount of chlorine into all tap water, usually in a normal town. And, so then a lot of people have chlorine in their drinking water, but for some people who have specialized filters for drinking water, they're designed to filter out all of the chlorine so that it's mostly just water that they're getting. So, some people have a filter installed.
 Okay, and would you be able to tell based on the color, because that seems to be what a lot of people are using as their indicator of good water. Would you be able to tell just by the color whether or not there's a lot of chlorine in it?
 [Elvis] Maybe, maybe not. I don't know if this contributes to it, but sometimes I look at my drinking water compared to the tap water, and the tap water is a lot more foggy, so I don't know if that's because the chlorine or because it's aerated or something, but I don't know.
 [Teacher] Okay good, thank you for sharing that. Elvis.
 You can buy those little filters that you can screw onto your taps so that way it filters down the water. I have one and it filters out tap water.
 [Teacher] Okay, and it's filtering out more of the amount, or maybe none of it at all. Okay. Let's go back... oh, go ahead Madeline.
 I would just like to say to Isaiah's comment, we sort of have to have chlorine in our water because there would be more bacteria if we didn't, so there's a reason for it, and it's not that much. So, it would do you less harm to have the chlorine in the water than to not have it.
 [Teacher] Okay, so the benefits of what you're saying is that you would at least have to have a little bit to kill off the bacteria, and that would outweigh the fact of you not having anything at all, and then being exposed to maybe whatever is in the water that the chlorine is not killing off, right? Okay, very good. Let's look at... We've used, again, some criteria, and let's look at that final question of, what is your definition of water quality? So, in other words, I think Jordan, I heard in your discussion, could you read your answer for us one more time about what you think water quality is to you?
 Water quality is how good the water is for you to drink.
 [Teacher] Good, how good the water is for you to drink. Can I hear another definition of water quality? Kris, what did you decide?
 [Kris] How clean the water was?
 [Teacher] How clean the water was, okay. And how would you determine if the water is clean or not? What was your number one indicator?
 [Kris] When you drink it.
 [Teacher] When you drink it, okay. So, if you drink it and you know that it's clean, then it has good water quality to it. All right. Isaiah?
 My definition of water quality is how much of the water is polluted, and how much of the water is pure.
 [Teacher] So, polluted versus pure and then kind of a ratio of if it's polluted and more pure then it's better water quality. Okay. Rachel, how about your definition of water quality?
 We said that water quality was how much of the water is pure water, and how much of it's polluted.
 [Teacher] Okay, so going back to that same definition together as you all talked. And Ashani, what did you think water quality would be?
 How good the water is because some water, it like tastes different, you can tell.
 [Teacher] Okay, so the taste. Have you ever experienced where water might taste a little different, can you think of an example?
 My aunt's house, when we go to her house it's always different from our house.
 [Teacher] And what kind of taste would you say?
 It's gross.
 (laughing) It's gross water. Maybe back to when we were talking about well water in here versus the regular city water, and it has a different taste to it. So, what we're gonna do, is using your ideas so far, you guys have told me again based on color, and you mentioned about the smell of it, and you've mentioned about tasting the water. So, I have here three different liquids that I'm going to go around and show you, and on your paper, you're going to determine if these liquids are safe or if these liquids are not. And since we have already discussed that there's probably different qualities for your water versus the water you drink versus the water that you swim in or the water that you are going to take a shower in, so when you comment upon whether those liquids are safe or not, I think it would probably be a wise decision to comment if you think they're safe to drink versus safe to shower or to swim. So, I'll start here with cup letter A. So, you can go ahead and mark "A" on your paper, and then I will walk around so you can just take an observation of the liquid. And you determine, again, if you think that it is safe.
 [Teacher] All right, so what do you all think? Logan? Do you think that this is safe to drink? So, if I gave this to you right now, you'd go ahead and drink it because it would be safe?
 [Logan] No.
 [Teacher] No? What would make you change your answer then?
