 What are some other indicators that tell us, "I'm in my target heart rate range?" Yes.
 [female student] By the categories on your RPE chart.
 Okay, your RPE Chart, you could use that. That's exactly right. How about within your body? What's something that your body can tell you that you're in that target heart rate range? Yes young lady.
 [female student] Um, the way you breath and how you're feeling.
 Okay good, your breathing, your feeling, some of you want to come in here and work out and then talk about how that your legs startin' to hurt and your thighs are startin' to be sore. All those things are physical ways that your body's sayin', "Hey, I'm doin' a good job "in this workout, I'm within my target heart rate range." When we do this today, I want you to kind of take a mental picture. Let, take a mental picture of, "This is how my body feels "when I'm in my target heart rate range." Whether your lower end or higher end, take a mental picture so that when you're out walking or, not walking, but when you're out running or playing soccer or playing basketball or things like that, you can kind of have an idea how you're feelin' with those, with those things, and you can know whether you're close to being in your target heart rate range. Now, one of the last things is, is we filled out that family health history that each of you has there and some of you had some different things on that health history, from heart disease, to high blood pressure, those types of things. The cardio workout that we're doin' today, what areas is that gonna positively impact on that family health history for you? Who knows that? What are some of those areas? Okay, Let's get you there Amy.
 [Amy] It'll help prevent heart disease, high blood pressure and diabetes.
 Okay, the heart disease, that's exactly right. Good cardio, high blood pressure, it's gonna bring the blood pressure down. Also, diabetes. Along with high blood pressure, you got high cholesterol. All of those areas, cardio, is going to positively impact those areas. Okay? The, yes?
 [female student] What do I need to lose weight?
 Okay, to lose weight. That's a question I get a lot of time. If you want to lose weight, ideally, you want to be in the upper end of your target heart rate range, or about 80%, however, you do actually at about you do burn more cal, fat calories at about 60%, but you're gonna burn more calories at 80% because it's a more intense workout, okay? So really, ideally, you'd want to be within your target heart rate range. Typically, up towards the higher end will be a little better because, if you're gonna be able to burn a few more calories than at the lower end. Okay? Any other questions on anything? All right, we're gonna get started here. You've already got your target heart rates, there. I want you to look here, and I want you to send that text to this poll everywhere to where your target heart rate zone is. What is your zone? And we'll notice this, most of you, you know, we've all figured it out. You'll notice percentage wise where most of you are gonna stand, or where most of you are gonna be in the chart. We start all the way down at 100, go all the way up to above 176. You'll start to see, that, that most likely that 151 to 175, that's gonna be our biggest area here that we're gonna fall into. You can see right there, we're at 75%, So most of you in here, where's our target heart rate range? In between?
 [female student] Between 151 and 175.
 There you go, between 151 and 175. That is right on the money for young adults your age. If you're at that 176 or higher, that's not a problem, but that is an area where, you know, anything over about 185 or so, then it just means that you've got to bring your heart rate up a little bit higher compared to most people. So most people though, again, are gonna be in that 151 to 175. That's a good job. Okay, go ahead and go to your machines here. Lay your clip boards off to the side. If you want to listen to your ipod or to your music, you can, only one ear phone though, only one ear piece. Make sure you put your cell phones up in the cubby there, we'll do something with those a little bit later. And where we're gonna start with here is we're gonna start together. We're gonna start with a two minute workout. On this workout, two minute warm-up. All we're gonna do is get warmed up. You need to be out on the bike, somewhere around 40 rpms. Ellipticals, about the same thing, 35 to 40 rpms. On the treadmills, around three speed will be a good, good place to start with. Is everybody good, we ready to go?
 (several students in unison) Yes. Are we good back there? You all set? Okay, all right, here we go. Startin' on two minutes. And start. All right so make sure that we got those magnets on there. Bump that up to about three or so. Just to get warmed up. (talking too low to be heard over treadmills) This is just gonna get your heart rate up a little bit. Now at the end of this warm up, we're gonna check where your heart rate is, we're gonna check that and you'll notice it will be a little bit elevated compared to, compared to, you know, what it was for a resting heart rate. You most likely will not be though, in your target heart rate zone, right here after this warm up. (exercise equipment humming) About halfway through. Good job. Anytime you work folks, you should always do a warm up. Now we've already stretched and done some, a little bit of jogging down there in the gym before we came up here. So you've got some warm up but anytime you go to a fitness room, you want to make sure that you do a little bit of warm up. Don't jump right in to it. You're gonna have a tendency to pull some muscles and have a lot more soreness and injury risk, for you. Good job, everybody doin' good?
 (several students in unison) Yes.
 As we do this, I'm gonna come along and ask you where you are on your RPE chart periodically, 'Cause I want to know how your body's feeling. Just kind of look at that and gauge where ever you are. Okay? Let's go ahead and get a heart rate check, here. Real quick, put your hands on the sensors, let's get that heart rate checked. As soon as you get that heart rate check, go ahead and stop your machine, hop off and we're gonna record that under heart rate one, real quick, under the warm up. Okay, stop your machine there. Record that heart rate. [teacher] As soon as we get this, go ahead lay those back off to the side, we're gonna hop back over here and we're gonna start goin' through the workout. Now the workout's gonna be 10 minutes. Again, bikes, you outta be pumpin' out about 80 to 85, of your RPMs there. Ellipticals, probably somewhere between 70 and 75. We really want to try to push this so at the five minute mark you're within that target heart rate zone. Anybody right now in their target heart rate zone?
 (several students in unison) No.
 No? A little bit elevated from the resting though?
 (several students in unison) Yes.
 Okay, all right. Let's go ahead and start. (exercise machines beeping and humming) At the five minute mark, we will check it again and we will check that heart rate, what your heart rate is. We won't get off the machines again until the work out's over. [teacher] Caroline?
 [teacher] Now again, on your own, once we get into this a couple minutes, on your own, if you want to kind of gauge where you are and check those sensors, you're more than welcome to do that. You just don't want to do it the whole time you're working out, and that'll kind of give you an idea where you're standing. If you need, if you're below your lower end of that target heart rate, go ahead and bump up the resistance a little bit, if that's the case, as we continue on through this.
 [teacher] Are you all doin' good? Where are we on the chart? At 3? That's good. (talking below sound of exercise equipment) You all could do this for an hour, huh? There you go. (machines humming) How you doin' over there? Where are you on your chart?
 Two.
 That's good.
 Three.
 Three.
 Two.
 I'd say around two.
 Two.
 Two. Ladies, how we doin' over here? How you feelin' on your chart?
 (several students in unison) Three.
 Three?
 Yeah.
 You good, Russell?
 Yeah.
 Okay. Andy, how you feelin? Where are you, on your chart? About four? How do you feel, good? Where are you on your chart? Doin' good. Most of you, you're all about a two, three, four range right now. Now we're just getting to the start of the work out, but here in a few minutes, that's probably gonna change. Might be changing right now. Probably startin' to feel a little bit of fatigue, breathing's becoming a little bit more difficult. We're gonna do a heart rate check in two minutes. Again, remember, I want you, mental picture in your mind, "How is my body feeling when I'm in "that target heart rate range?" Doing a good job, good job. (speaking below level of equipment) Okay we got one more minute and we're gonna get a heart rate check, here.
 [teacher] If you're feelin' like your in that 4 to 6 range, you might be able to go ahead and up your, up your intensity just a little bit there, up your speed maybe, up your resistance a little bit. Russell, did you forget to put your phone on vibrate?
 Yeah.
 That's all right, buddy. Just don't mess with it while you're on the bike, okay? I mean while you're on the treadmill.
 Okay.
 Okay, hard to do, hard to do anything with a phone while you're running. All right, let's go ahead and get a heart rate check here. Get a quick check. Remember what this number is. This is gonna be heart rate number two on your chart. We want to be within that range now. If you're not, we need to up your resistance. If you're at the lower end, I want to try to get on up towards the higher end, about that 80% mark. So if that's the case, bump your speed a little bit, up your resistance if you need to. We're gonna get one more check here in about four and a half minutes. (speaking below level of machines)
 About 65, I'm in my range.
 Nice, nice. (machines drowning out voices) Where are you on your RPE chart?
 Uh, about four.
 About four? Four or five? (machines drowning out voices) Hey, anytime, you know if you're saying, "God, I just can't get my heart rate up there," if you're on the treadmill, increase that elevation a little bit. Elliptical, if you increase the resistance, then you'll start to feel it. How's Callie back here? She's startin' to get it right now, aren't ya? (machines drowning out voices) How are you all on your chart? Five or six? Where are you all on your chart?
 [female student] Five.
 [teacher] Five?
 [female student] Six.
 [teacher] Where are you guys on your chart?
 [male student] probably around four.
 Ladies how we doin'? Where are you on your chart?
 [female student] About six.
 [teacher] Six?
 [female student] Yes.
 [teacher] How are you, Russell?
 [Russell] Six, seven.
 How about you?
 [female student] Six.
 [teacher] Six?
 [teacher] Dale, where are you?
 [Dale] Three, four.
 [teacher] Three, four? You need to increase your resistance, I mean your elevation a little bit. How about you?
 [male student] Four?
 Four.
 Most of you are comin' up on that chart. Comin' up! Okay, we're gettin' ready to do another check here. Good. A couple more minutes here. Everybody doing okay?
 (several students in unison) Yup.
 Are you startin' to feel some of the signs we talked about, fatigue in the legs?
 (several students in unison) Yes.
 I know it's hard to talk right now. A little more difficult breathing.
 (teacher) Startin' to feel it a little bit more now, aren't you?
 (male student) yeah, a little bit. (machines drowning out teacher talking)
 [teacher] How's it going back here? My legs are like rubber (laughs). So now you know, you just got increase that resistance a little bit and keep it at the same RPMs.
 One mile, Kyle.
 [teacher] Okay, in thirty seconds here, we're gonna get a heart rate check. Then we're going into the cool down. You really push it right here. You're about to jump off the elliptical, aren't you? Good. Okay, let's get a heart rate check here. Heart rate check. Grab those sensors. Remember this number. When you get this number, when you've got this, go ahead and bring your speed on down. [teacher] We're goin' into the cool down phase. Make sure you remember what that number was.
 [male student] What was your heart rate?
 [male student] Uh, 170.
 [male student] I'm about 169. (background chatter)
 [teacher] In your cool down phase now. There you go, good good. Did we get in there, in your range, in your range? Everybody in your range? Great, good job. Did you stay in heart rate range? Good. Now did anybody on that RPE chart ever feel like you got up to about an eight or a nine?
 [several students in unison] Yes.
 [teacher] You did?
 [several students in unison] Yes. Up there? All right. Did ya'll get in your range?
 [two male students] Yup.
 [teacher] Did you get within your range? Was ya'll on your upper end or towards the lower end?
 [male student] Upper end.
 Tried to go up. How about you guys? Did you get in your range there?
 [male student] Yeah.
 [teacher] Yeah. Now, here in about 45 more seconds, we're gonna get our last check here, on the cool down. You'll notice how quickly as you do this, you'll be able to tell a major difference from the last check that you did during the workout, and even after this two minute cool down here, the difference  between where that heart rate drops to. Are ya'll okay? Okay, let's go ahead and get that last heart rate check.
