 Yeah, I wanna talk to you some more.
 This is cool, that's probably how you attract them is start doing this. (kids talking)
 Hey, tell me why you think, Adam, he's able to do this again.
 Because he has these legs, like his legs stick to the ground so I think they can do it because they stick to the ground to get the strength, then he pulls it up and he does it again.
 Hey, that sounds like a connection to what we've been learning about the structures and the functions. Yeah, so when it's time to start making those connections, I really want you to write that down with your team. Just make sure that that gets on your paper. Okay, I want you writing out, how many paper clips is this beetle pulling?
 Two grams.
 Two grams, right now mathematician get busy. (kids chattering)
 Okay. I'm gonna keep putting another one on here to make sure.
 Put four on there, let's see if he can do it with four. Hey little buddy, don't, don't, don't. No, no, no, no, pull him away.
 What am I doing?
 He's making a sound! He's making a sound!
 He's making a hiss--
 He's making a hissing sound.
 You think? Why do you think he's hissing?
 Maybe because he thinks we're trying to hurt him.
 Yeah, for self defense.
 Yeah, alright. Let me go check in with some other teams. You all keep working on your beetle.
 Okay. (kids talking)
 What's going on at your all's beetle team?
 He's pulling-
 The beetle is pulling two times its weight.
 Two times right now?
 Yeah.
 So how many paper clips is that that he's pulling?
 Two.
 Three, three. (kids talking loudly)
 He's pulling three. (kids talking) (giggling and laughing) (coughing)
 Your beetle's not moving. You think it's because of the loudness?
 Yeah.
 Class city class, should you be going to other team's beetles? I know it's fun, and I know it's interesting, but should you be going to other team's experiments?
 No, ma'am.
 You need to be engaged with your team. Okay.
 We're trying to--
 Okay. Did he pull two?
 He's pulled two and then we're gonna--
 He has pulled two? Okay. So let's see, let's just give him a little nudge in the rear.
 When I put a pencil right here, he'll go after it.
 Oh, well see if that works, do you think--
 I know, like earlier he was trying to get out of the bucket.
 Let's see if he can pull it? He's doing it. He's moving.
 Oh my gosh. (kids talking)
 I see he's moving some, but I haven't seen the paper clips move yet, that's what we have to wait and see. Are the paper clips going to move?
 Wait, I have to do my job. (gasp)
 They're moving! They're moving! So he just pulled three grams? Okay, so... Did the beetle pull three grams? Beth, where's your sheet? Go ahead, help. (kids talking and chattering) Talk to each other about what's happening.
 Woah, you can't hold him, you have to leave him on the table.
 Wrecking ball!
 Somebody pick these up.
 I got it.
 You hold him up, good, teamwork. You hold him up.
 You're hurting him, you're hurting him. (kid yelling) There we go, now we've got four paper clips on there. Now, lets put the paper clips behind him. Now... Talk to each other. Talk to each other.
 I think he's, I think he'll be able to pull many, many, many. Right now.
 I think the beetle may be able to pull-- (kids talking louder)
 Eight, eight.
 That's how many we have.
 Oh, this team over here has eight, I might need to go over... (kids talking loudly over each other)
 Woah, wait, wait, wait.
 Get a green.
 Let's see him in action.
 I am noticing that we underestimated our beetles, didn't we? (kid yelling in victory) (kids talking) We underestimated our beetles, didn't we?
 Yeah.
 Our beetles may be able to pull more than we anticipated.
 We can do nine.
 Okay.
 Not yet, not yet.
 Keep working, mathematicians keep track.
 He's going. (kids talking)
 Talk to me team about what's going on.
 He can talk.
 It can pull nine times...
 It pulled eight.
 Its body weight.
 It is pulling nine times its body weight? Wow, how many paper clips is nine times its body weight?
 Nine grams.
 Nine grams? Holy moly. Did any of you all predict that this beetle would be able to pull nine grams?
 No, we only did all four.
 We only thought four, he'd pull four.
 We only thought four. We only thought four. Okay, are you all making any connections? How in the world is this beetle able to pull nine grams of paper clips? Nine times its body weight. What do you think-- Oh now look, when it's on the desk is it able to do it?
 No, its harder for him to do it on the desk.
 Why can't it do it on the desk?
 I think he might have a better grip on the construction paper.
 What grips better? What structure is gripping better on that construction paper?
 Because it has--
 It's because it's got, it's got like suction cups and I guess it's not used to the slippery desk.
 It has claws to pull it.
 It's pulling it.
 I think it looks really--
 It's what, Abby?
 Even though it's really loud in here its still moving.
 It's still moving even though it's loud in here, that's right.
 I think it just wants to go to Justice.
 You think the beetle's trying to go to Justice? I don't know about that. Are you gonna try a tenth paper clip?
 Yep.
 Yes.
 Look, look ten.
 Ten paperclips? Let's see. (kids talking) (squealing) (kids talking loudly)
 He's taking your pencil.
 He's wants to get your pencil.
 Oh, why do you think?
 Because it's  wood.
 Because he likes wood.
 And what type of animal is the beetle?
 Bess, Betsy beetle.
 But what do they do? Why do they eat wood?
 They are... (kids talking at the same time)
 It's pulling ten!
 Why does the bess beetle eat wood?
 Look at him, I don't know if he's pulling ten or not. Look at him.
 Because he's a decomposer!
 He is a de-- He is barely pulling ten. He's having to work really, really hard.
 Yeah.
 I think it's probably time to stop adding them to the beetle, you think?
 I put max.
 Maximum is ten.
 Do you think we can add--
 Class city class, if your beetle is struggling and, like, arching its back and, like, flipping its legs, but it's barely pulling it, it may be time for you to give the beetle, we don't wanna be mean to the beetle.
 Our max was ten.
 Okay. So, we're left on, thank you for taking them off. (kids talking)
 Alright class city class.
 Yes, baby, yes.
 Put your eyes on me. Oh, I'm waiting. I'm waiting. Thank you. Most of us have come to the point where the beetle is struggling, okay? And having a hard time pulling the weight. At this point, if your beetle is struggling it is time to start the summarizer and the connector job. Okay, so I wanna hear you talking, summarizing, connecting what has happened. (kids talking)
 Let's give him a rest.
 Yeah, let's give him--
 Wait, don't pull that.
 Oh my gosh.
 How many is he pulling?
 Seven.
 Okay, here, I'll bring you some more. Where are the rest of your paper clips?
 Right there.
 Get off.
 He's starting pulling.
 Okay, oh be nice to my beetle friend.
 I'm trying to. He keeps on getting his foot stuck to my hand.
 Hi little buddy. Oh, I almost touched it! (kids talking)
 We learned before that beetles...
 Hang on, you're learning that beetles what?
 That beetles are really strong, but with their little legs and their thorax maybe.
 Their thorax you think is what makes them really strong?
 Because the thorax, it may be the biggest part in their body.
 Yeah, it is probably the biggest part. What else on their legs, what on their legs are helping it?
 Their... Look at it. I know what it is. Their...
 The thing that's sticking to the table and helping it move faster.
 Okay, so the sticky part on their feet?
 Here, let me do it.
 Yeah, okay.
 You all have done a really nice job noticing what structures of this beetle are helping it to be so strong. How do you think it uses that in the wild? Like out in nature? How do you think it uses that?
 It's functional and it almost-- (student talking drowns out speech)
 You may even think it's cool, but he could use his wings to fly away.
 Some beetles do have wings to fly away, but what do you think is, I need you in your seat Nathan, what do you think it's using to move? Its, that's a lot of strength.
 Its abdomen?
 Right, okay, its abdomen is, but in nature. What might it use that for?
 It might use it to catch its prey maybe.
 Okay, what does it... What does it do? What does it eat?
 It may eat...
 Casey, say it again to your team.
 Organic and it breaks it down.
 It breaks it down. What is that called? What type of insect would--
 It's a, it's a d...
 A d... A d... (laughs)
 A d...
 A D.
 A disposer.
 Not a disposer, close.
 A decomposer.
 That's it! (clapping) Not a disposer, but a decomposer, good. And so okay think, it's okay. Think about if it was trying to dig into the wood of a tree. Wouldn't it have to be really strong?
 It can make a hole.
 In the wood of the tree.
 That little thing, the little... might be to decompose the wood.
 So it can bite and then break down.
 It's really gonna have to be biting harder.
 Yeah, that mouth part is really strong to bite. Okay, so now may I have your attention, how many do you have?
 We have 10.
 You have 10 and it's pulling it, let's send him home.
 I want 11. (squeals)
 They're moving, look at his legs how hard they're trying to pull. You might, he might be able to pull 11.
 I'm gonna give him one extra.
 No!
 No 12.
 Okay, you all keep working on that, you're doing a great job.
 Thank you.
 I wanna come back to my very first team.
 Carrying 10.
 10?
 Ours can carry 11.
 Yeah.
 It did?
 Yeah.
 And he pooped on the paper.
 Okay, it pooped?
 Twice.
 It pooped twice?
 Yeah, twice.
 Okay, let me put this here. I don't know where to put it. There we go. So what are you doing? Are you adding 11?
 We're gonna see our 11 puller.
 You're gonna do 11? What connections can you make?
 The legs are like a crayfish.
 The legs are like a crayfish?
 Yeah.
 How?
 They have joints.
 They're jointed. How do you think those joints help that beetle to pull 11 times its body weight?
 The beetle is like a, able to grab on.
 Yes, so, Tim's saying something, say it loud.
 It helps it walk.
 It helps it walk, but--
 And escape from predators.
 And escape from predators, how?
 Because--
 What might it do with those powerful legs? What did we notice them doing in their containers? They get under the what? (noise drowns out kids)
 They get under the rocks and the dirt.
 Like, Tim, like when he was on the corner Tim was, like, picking him up, and he was holding on to the paper.
 He was holding the paper?
 Tim lift him up.
 Okay.
 Oh yeah, it's neat.
 I can make a connection.
 What's your connection?
 If we didn't have jointed legs we couldn't walk up stairs, if we didn't have jointed legs.
 If we didn't have jointed legs, we couldn't walk upstairs, right? Is that what you said Coner?
 You're okay. You're okay. Alright, I want you talking to each other. Help Halle, she's writing down some of your connections. Help her, team, help her. (kids talking)
 Talk to Halle.
 What's another thing?
 The aphid's have pincers and the bess just have...
 Tim's telling you something.
 It has little like claws.
 Hang on, Tim's telling you something. Listen to Tim.
 The aphids have pincers and the beetle has these things, that helps it eat out the wood.
 They look like little--
 They look like pinchers.
 The beetle has.... a pincher like a crayfish. A pincher like a...
 Oh, this could pull 11.
 Good connecting, keep connecting.
