 The yellow has less water
 That's true.
 And more H plus.
 Because a higher concentration of (background chatter)
 The higher the concentration of the acid?
 Yes.
 Yes.
 So you think it's something about the acid that's causing the color.
 Yeah.
 What about the blue food coloring? (background chatter) This stays the same?
 Yeah.
 But why would you think this stays the same and it's the acid that's changing color? (background chatter) Okay, so the concentration of the blue food coloring is the same, but the amount of acid is not. So I must be changing the color of the acid. So it's the acid that's changing color.
 You're not changing the color of the acid, though.
 Anybody else got ideas about that? That something else that could explain it? That's one hypothesis.
 You put the same amount of food coloring in every time, right?
 Yeah.
 Wait, so the acid is probably likely to, maybe like lose an electron?
 The acid loses electrons? (background chatter) What is an acid? (background chatter) It gives up an H plus, right?
 There are more moles of Hydrogen ions...
 Right, acid's dissociate. So I got more molds of H plus in this one. Okay, Emma, you have an idea?
 Well, there are more, I think I might have gotten it confused. Basically, there's a higher concentration of acid as you go along, right?
 So more here.
 Yeah. There's more when it's lighter.
 Lowest, most.
 Yeah, I know.
 Okay.
 So that gives it more reason for a more drastic color change, then. Because there are more H pluses, if you will, that could cause it to jump in energy.
 Okay, so you got the idea of energy is some kind of, something's jumping. Because you know...
 Could it be the separation between the two sets of the orbital in the food coloring itself that's changing?
 Okay.
 Which is why the blue color changes to the, like, brownish yellow.
 So now what is your idea about what's changing color?
 The orbital, the food coloring is changing color.
 The food coloring is changing color.
 Yeah, the food, okay, so that makes sense. The food coloring is changing color, but the acid concentration is making it change color.
 Yeah.
 So the food coloring's like the dependent variable, right?
 What is in the food coloring?
 That's a good question.
 That's what we need to know.
 What is in the food coloring? The same thing that's in the cabbage indicator, actually. Well, something similar, they're called anthocyanins. And I have a little handout to show you what they look like. So, before we do that though. Actually, no, I'll show you a picture of an anthocyanin and have you hypothesize a little bit more about what might be happening here. So here's an anthocyanin. It's this molecule here. So usually anthocyanins have lots of benzene rings in them. Okay? So what is happening, what is causing the different colors? So we had the idea of something to do with orbitals and something jumping.
 In the food coloring.
 In the food coloring.
 But the food coloring isn't transition metal.
 It's not a transition metal, no.
 Can you still have that happen?
 Well, what else could there be?
 Well I think it's the O-H because,
 Is it like splitting up the p-orbitals?
 What makes you say that?
 There's like SP-3 orbitals and I guess p2 orbitals  (background chatter).
 Okay, so are you saying it's that splitting of SP-3 and SP-2 orbitals or the P orbitals?
 I was thinking it's the P orbitals.
 Okay, so what here would represent the P orbitals?
 Whatever bonded with the acid. The O-H maybe?
 Oh, would it be the  (background chatter) no.
 Okay, so here's what we're going to do. I'm going to give you this handout, and what I would like you to do. I want you to highlight all of the double bonds in one color. Then I want you to highlight all of the single bonds in another color, okay? You should have highlighters by your table.
 Purple.
 I'll take green. (background chatter)
 Do you want us to do it for all of them?
 Yeah, let's just do it, let's do it for the first one to start with. Anthocyanins in red wine, we'll do that. So, anthocyanins are in lots of different compounds. Anything that has color really, wine, grapes, cabbage, red onions, food coloring.
 Are they, they're not in colorless though, right? Or are they?
 Say it again?
 They can't be colorless, because it's colorless.
 Well, kind of, you'll see. We'll explain that in a little bit, yeah.
 Is something colorless because they don't have any d electrons, or like the d-orbital is filled up with electrons? Or are there other factors?
 Yes, that's true for transition metals,
 But for other things?
 For other things that are colorless, what would explain why they were colorless?
 It would have to be a different orbital.
 Different wave length.
 Like the absorption, based on the bond. Yes to both of you. So Riley's idea is that maybe, so what did we say color came from earlier? (background chatter) Color in general, where does color in general come from? Reflecting certain frequencies, and absorbing other frequencies of light right? Okay, so we can only see purple to red. So is there another explanation for why something might be colorless? Because it ...
 Probably because it's absorbing everything?
 Well, if it was absorbing everything, what color would it be?
 Black.
 Oh, it's not absorbing anything.
 It's not absorbing anything? Or not absorbing ...
 Any color.
 It's not absorbing what we can see.
 It's not absorbing what we can see, that's right. It's not absorbing what we can see.
 It reflects all the colors.
 So, you guys see a pattern yet? Can I borrow somebody's? Let me borrow yours. Let's put it under the camera as an example here. What do you notice?
 Were we supposed to highlight...
 Single bonds, yes. What do you notice about the relationships between double and single bonds? The double bonds right next to each other?
 The double bonds are next to the single bonds.
 The double bond are next to the single bonds. That's right, that's right. Okay, in the first one, where you have, What color is the first one, does is say?
 It just says colored.
 Red wine.
 But we have colored and we have colorless. Okay, so in the colored one, how many, can you count how many times it goes double-single, double-single, double-single? That's like a tongue twister. (background chatter)
 It's seven in colored?
 I got seven.
 Okay, so now count colorless and see what you get. What did you guys get?
 For double-single? I got like 14.
 Okay, so are you counting double and single as ...
 Yeah, yeah.
 Okay so you basically got seven, too. Okay, so do colorless now.
 Double bonds between every single bond, between the bonds with the C N-O.
 I got eight for colored. (background chatter)
 I got 17 in the singles, and eight doubles for that.
 Okay, what's the difference between colored and colorless, basically? And the number of double and single bonds?
 There are more singles than colorless.
 Okay, not the total numbers, oh wait, there's more singles than colorless? Okay, that's a way we can look at it. Okay, see if the same...
 We got seven for colorless.
 Okay.
 Is it supposed to be the same number?
 No no, no it's not supposed to be the same. (background chatter) Alright, let's hear what Gracie has to say. Say what you just said.
 So, in colored there's more doubles and there's less singles. So that means that there's going to be more of the single-doubles. But then in colorless there's less doubles and more singles, so that means there's less single-doubles.
 Can somebody restate that? Just so that I can make sure that you understand what she said?
 Does that mean that if there are more double bonds than there are, that colors (background chatter).
 So, say it again.
 When there are more double bonds there's a color, or something.
 Okay, when there's more double bonds there's a color. Does that seem like the pattern we're noticing here?
 It has to do with pi bonding.
 Why does it have to do with pi bonding?
 Because it's an overlap of p-orbitals.
 Overlap of p-orbitals.
 Which allows the delocalized electrons to like...
 Okay, so what did you say, Con?
 Delocalization.
 Delocalization, the delocalization comes from... (background chatter) Pi bonds, what is a pi bond? It's the overlap of what?
 P-orbitals.
 P-orbitals, p-orbitals okay. So when it goes double-single, double-single, double-single, what's happening there? How does that create...
 It's like one big pi bond. Like when you have, like earlier you were talking about whatcha-ma-call-its, I can't articulate...
 Delocalization?
 No, like...
 One giant p-orbital?
 Yeah, like sort of, yeah one giant p-orbital. Like one giant pi bond, it like expands from like through different,
 Oh, and like a benzene shape, and then that makes a circle? Yeah, and it's not actually like here's one,  here's one pi bond, here's one pi bond, here's one. It's like they're like all pi bonded.
 They're like all pi bonded to each other, okay. So in which case, in which case are they all pi bonded to each other? The colored form, or the colorless form? (background chatter)
 I'd say colored because they are all close to each other. Like the pi bonds.
 The pi bonds, say it again.
 They're close to each other.
 They're close to each other in the colored form? So is there more...
 There's more double bonds.
 There's more double bonds in the colored?
 Yeah, so they would have to be closer to each other. (background chatter)
 There are more double bonds in colored, less double bonds in colorless.
 Okay, so how many of you say there's less double bonds in the colorless? Less double bonds in the colorless? Three.
 There's only seven double bonds in colorless and there's eight in colored. And there's more leftover singles. (background chatter)
 Wait, for which one, for colored?
 Oh, you're counting the far left one. (background chatter)
 Yeah, this one has eight.
 This is an intermediate one?
 So then it's seven and seven.
 Seven and seven, okay. So how many, if you were to try to connect. So the idea is that it makes one giant p-orbital. If you were going to connect all of the p-orbitals, which one would have the most gigantic p-orbital?
 Colored
 Colored. Is that clear to everybody? Why did you say colorless? Did you say colorless?
 Yeah, I don't understand why.
 Because there's  a bunch of single bonds.
 Because the pi bond is more in the middle of the two other things (background chatter).
 Wait, for the far left?
 Does that make any sense?
 We're talking about the far left one.
 Let's look at all three. So which one of these is going to have the most giant pi bond?
 The middle one?
 The middle one.
 Because it's an intermediate.
 And they're more double bonds.
 Does anyone disagree that it's going to be the middle one that would have the most giant p-orbital? Okay. Alright, let's look at some more down here. Did you guys do, does somebody have these highlighted?
 No.
 I think Rebecca, you have them highlighted, right? (background chatter)
 Okay, so let's look at these two here. Can we apply our hypothesis? So what is our hypothesis by the way?
 More overlap of p-orbitals the more colored it is?
 Okay, the more overlap of p-orbitals the more colored it is. That's our hypothesis. Is it supported by these two on the side here?
 Can we highlight the exterior?
 So what do you think? Is our hypothosis supported by these two? Alright, Con, can you explain?
 Well, I mean it just looks like there's a bunch of conjunctions of single bonds where the streak of double-single is kind of broken.
 Okay, right, so there's a streak of double-single, double-single, double-single, double-single, double-single. So imagine you start somewhere. Have you guys ever heard the song that never ends?
 Yes. ♫ This is the song that never ends ♫
 Okay, we're not gonna sing it, it never ends. So in this case, if we were to just go around going double-single, double-single, double-single, double-single, double-single, double-single, double-single, double-single, double-single, would I ever get to an end necessarily? Would I here? How about if I went double, still single, double- single, double-single, double-single,
 But that's single, single.
 Single, single. So which one's going to have a more extensive pi bond? The top one, so that sort of fits our hypothesis that the more pi bonding there is, the more colored it is. Okay, so what causes color in these compounds?
 Shared electrons?
 More shared electrons, that are shared how? (background chatter)
 Pi bonds. (background chatter)
 More pi bonds equals what?
 More area for the electrons to move around?
 Okay, more area for them. More delocalization, okay. So let's take it back to this, to our acid and blue food coloring demonstration. Why are these different colors? What is happening here? (background chatter) Let's put this together.
 Oh, is it the H is taking more of the delocalized electrons because H is positive?
 What do you think?
 Because there's a higher concentration.
 So say it again.
 Okay so since H is a positive ion, it takes more of the, since there's more, it takes more of the delocalized electrons?
 Okay, so it's taking more of the delocalized electrons. So how does that explain the color change? Can somebody add onto that?
 There's less electrons so I guess there's less...
 More double bonding?
 There's less energy absorbed?
 No, there's increased...
 So, is more energy being absorbed, or less energy being absorbed when it's yellow?
 More energy is being absorbed that's why it's yellow.
 Exactly, that creates further  (background chatter).
 Because there are more electrons bonding with the H plus than there is in the...
 It's about absorption.
 Ah, okay Ruth, say that...
