 How's everybody today?
 [All] Good.
 Good.
 Okay, we are gonna work our bodies real hard today, and we are gonna play a game called Wellness Uno. How many people, raise your hand if you've ever played Uno. Absolutely, put your hands down. Do you know that there are four colors in Uno? Who knows what one color is? Alexis, what is it?
 Blue.
 [Ms. Miller] What's another one?
 Um, red.
 Red. What's another one Nate?
 Yellow.
 Yellow.
 Green.
 Green, absolutely. Okay, we've got the Uno cards spread all around the circle here, first graders. And what we're gonna do is, in just a minute, you're gonna come up here, and you're gonna get an Uno card. I might pick this one right here, this one is a...
 [All] Green four.
 Green four. Okay I look at it and then I put it right back. If you notice the gym is set up in four different color zones. Point to where the green color zone is. Boom, you got a green cone over there, stay right there, watch Ms. Miller. The green color zone is the muscular strength and muscular endurance station. So if this is, you have choices when you come over here first graders. Choice number one, you can get a rope, and you can swing, how many times?
 [All] Four.
 Four. Swing four times. Which rope would be easier to swing on, Alexis?
 [Alexis] The knot one.
 The knot one, 'cause you can hang on to it better, that's right. So you can swing, or can come over here, and you can do those bicep curls that we've been working on in muscular strength and endurance. Stand right here to the wall, and do that four times, nice and what?
 [All] Slow.
 Slow, absolutely. And here's your last choice at the muscular strength and endurance station, if I got, what was my number again?
 [All] Four.
 Four. Look there's four hula hoops on the rock wall. You would start here and you would go through hula hoop one, then hula hoop--
 [All] Two, three, four.
 What happens if I had a green two, how many hula hoops would I go through, Paige? How many would I go through?
 Two.
 Just two. Okay, so it's either four, whatever number that is, that's the number of hula hoops you go through. Then I come back over here and I pick another card. Hmm, did I pick this one, oh I just picked that one. Let's pick this one, what color's that?
 [All] Yellow three.
 Yellow three Point to the yellow color zone. Absolutely, the yellow color zone is the cardiorespiratory zone, and guess what you have to do here, first grade? There is a cone here and it says yellow--
 [All] Add zero.
 What was my number?
 [All] Three.
 Three, and if I add a zero to that, what does that make that number?
 [All] Thirty.
 Thirty. That's what we're gonna have to do. I have my choice, I have to do thirty of something over here. Here are my choices, I'm gonna do thirty, oh gonna work my heart, thirty step-boxes. Or if I don't wanna do that, I can do the ball on the stick. How many times?
 [All] Thirty.
 Thirty. And if I'm really good, and if I really wanna try, I can get a jump rope right there on the wall, and I can try jump roping thirty times. Now I'm gonna run back here and I'm gonna get another card, and I'm gonna get this one right here. This one is a--
 [All] Red six.
 Uh oh.
 [All] Red nine.
 Red nine, it's a red nine, see where that line is under there, so that means it's a nine. Red nine, point to the red color zone. Woo you guys are so smart. I come over here to the red color zone, and look, what does the red color zone have on it?
 [All] Times two.
 [Ms. Miller] Times two, so what was my number?
 [All] Nine.
 Nine. What's nine times two? Say it Alexis.
 Eleven?
 Not eleven, this is hard. What's nine plus nine? What is it Nathan? Do you know? What is it Ethan?
 18.
 It's 18. So we're gonna do 18, Ms. Miller will help you with the math if you don't know, so we're gonna times that one by two, and here are my choices, I'm gonna come over here, and I'm gonna get a paddle, and I'm gonna, this is a hand-eye, I'm gonna use my hands and my eyes, I'm gonna put my safety strap on, and I'm gonna do how many of these?
 [All] 6, 9, 18.
 18 that's right, 18. And first grade, how can I challenge myself at this station? If I wanted to make this station harder for myself, how would I do that, Courtney?
 Um, use your left hand?
 Use your other hand. Ms. Miller is left-handed so if I use my left hand, I would use my right hand. So if you want to challenge yourself, you'd use your other hand, so you're gonna do that how many times?
 [All] 18.
 18, okay. So that's, you could either do that at this station, or I love these, these are the, I call them the ice cream cones. Look, you throw that ball and you're gonna catch that ball. Do it again, that's how many?
 [All] Two.
 Two. And you're gonna do that all the way 'til you get to whatever number you have at that station. That was using your hands and your eyes, watching that ball right into that cup. And now I'm gonna come over here and I'm gonna get one more, and oh, I just grabbed that one, let's see what's, oh, what's this number?
 [All] Blue...
 Blue six. Where's the blue color zone, point, where's the blue color zone, over there. Hey, the blue color zone is balancing, watch Ms. Miller over here. You're gonna come over here, and if you don't wanna touch the gym floor, Ethan sit down for me, you're gonna step on the stepping stones, and you can either step on the sides of the ladder, or if you wanna make it harder for yourself, you can step on these rungs, and balance all the way to the bleachers, step up, come across, and then we're gonna go on this balance beam. Hey first graders, when we're balancing, do we go fast or slow?
 [All] Slow.
 Slow, we go slow, we don't wanna go fast at this station, because we wanna have good balance, and we don't wanna fall. We wanna make sure we don't touch the gym floor. So that's, wait, what was my number again I forgot!
 [All] Nine.
 It was a nine red, how many times would I go then?
 [All] Nine.
 Nine times around there. Or your choice is the hippity hops, Now Ms. Miller's a little big for this hippity hop, but you kinda get the idea, you just use the boing, hop hop to the black line it's one, and then back is how many?
 [All] Two.
 So I would do that nine times. Okay, those are your choices, so there's four stations, yellow, red, excuse me, green, and blue. Turn around and face Ms. Miller now. I wanna talk to you about something really quick, it's something called personal integrity. You ready back there Ethan? Everybody sit on your bottoms, sit on your bottoms. Personal integrity, and first does anybody know what personal integrity is, do you think you know? Maddie, when you hear that, what do you think that means?
 Listening
 Listening, okay, what do you think Maria?
 If you wanna go to one station that you really like and you get a different card, you can't put it back and get the one you want.
 Ah! Wow, do I like that definition. Absolutely, personal integrity, this is the way I think of it, is doing the right thing when nobody else is watching. You said it Maria, you know what my favorite, I really like those swing ropes over there, I really like to do that. Would I have personal integrity, if I came over here and I did this, I got a card and it's like, ooh blue, I don't wanna go to blue, I wanna put that back. Ooh there's another blue, I don't want that. Would I have personal integrity if I kept picking cards until I got what I wanted?
 [All] No.
 Can Ms. Miller watch every person get a card?
 [All] No.
 No, so you have to have some personal integrity. Whatever card you get, that's the one, what happens if I just got a blue card, and I come over here and I pick another blue one? What am I gonna do, what am I gonna do, Paige?
 You put it back down and you get another one but not the same one.
 No, no no, we're not gonna get another one, we're going to what, it's okay.
 You just go back to the blue station.
 That's right, you're just gonna go back to the blue station, and just maybe if you did the hippity hops, maybe do the balance drill next time. Outstanding, okay, we're gonna get started, this is what I want you to do. Oh I forgot one more rule, when you get a card, do you ever run across the Indian?
 [All] No.
 Do we ever run across her because we wanna stay spread out, we don't wanna bump into anybody. Nelson, do you have a question? Do you have a question about something?
 You'd probably rip the card.
 You would absolutely rip the card if you were to step on them or actually you might slide on them and you could hurt yourself. Hands down, let's get started. I'm gonna call months of the year. And if I call your month of the year that your birthday is in, then you're gonna get up, and you're gonna go get a card. Are you ready? If you have a birthday in January, February, or March, go get a card. How 'bout April, May, and June. July, August, September. October, November, and December, let's go. (dance music) What'd you get Chris, let's see man. What is that, talk to me.
 Red eight.
 Red eight, do you know what eight plus eight is? Eight plus eight, think about that. Almost, 16, go do 16 of those, good job buddy. Hey Paige, you wait on the end of the mat there until Alexis is done. What's your number Alexis? Four, don't hold the bottom, grab up at the top like Brian is doing, that's perfect, yeah. What was your number?
 [Brandon] One
 [Ms. Miller] What was it?
 [Brandon] One.
 One, did you do one? Do you think you can do one then come back here and go get another card. Ooh Steven, Steven what'd you get, man? What is it?
 Blue seven.
 It's a blue seven, go! Hey Ethan, what'd you get? Now remember the line means what?
 A yellow six.
 Okay, what are you gonna do with that yellow six? Wait come here, look at me,  you're gonna put a? (music drowning out voice) No, you're gonna add a what to the end of that? A zero, and that makes it what number?
 60.
 Yeah, let's go. Woo, look at these people over here at the cardiorespiratory station, they are going up-up-down-down, they are getting their heart rates up. What number did you have Maddie?
 Um, 50.
 50, holy moly. Keep counting. It goes like this Maddie, up, up, down, down, that's one. Every time you hit the ground that's one, okay? Woo! Be careful. That's okay, just hold it up like this. Watch, watch, you see how it whirls like this at the bottom? There you go like that, it can get pretty hard. Yeah, Chris?
 [Chris] I saw one card that was um, um it was turned over.
 [Ms. Miller] Oh did you?
 [Chris] So I flipped it over.
 Oh really, thank you so much, I appreciate you taking care of the cards for me. Here you go, five times two, what's five plus five?
 Ten.
 Ten, that's what it is. Jamie, what'd you get?
 Forty
 Forty? Did you get four yellow? Go. Woo look at these hippity hops over here Outstanding. Man are you guys doing a good job, I like how you're going really slow at this station, that's good balancing. Ooh Chris, way to get your balance back. Slow down buddy, woah Nelson, I know. Can you put one foot in front of the other? Can you bring your other foot in front? Wanna try it? Ms. Miller's right here in case you have to grab onto me. Yeah, look at that, what a good balancer you are.
 I balance on the monkey bars.
 You balance on the monkey bars?
 Yeah.
 Woo! Good job. You did it, good job. All right what'd you get buddy? Blue four! Hey, are you supposed to have your card with you? I'll go put it back for you, remember to leave the card. Hey Jane, did you run through the middle of the Indian? Did you forget? Don't do it again, go on, stay on the floor. Way to practice! How's it going over here Paige and Ethan? Keep your eye right on that ball. Ooh Paige that was close. Right on there, good job. How bout you come over here. What is eight times two? What's eight times two Paige, do you know that? That's a hard one.
 Nine.
 Eight plus eight. Eight plus eight kids. Six times two, what's six plus six? Six and six put the two sixes together.
 12.
 12! That's what it is. Just keep going, there's new music coming on, there's new music coming on first grade. Keep it going. Way to go there, Nelson, I like that. Woo! Your arms hurt? You're getting a lot of good muscular strength. What'd you get here, let's see. What is that?
 Yellow seven.
 What are you gonna do to that seven? You're gonna put a what on the end of it? A what are you gonna put on it?
 A zero.
 What does that make it?
 70.
 Go! Woo Maddie you got a blue--
 Nine.
 Yes! No kidding! Don't go running. What is that card?
 A yellow four.
 And what are you gonna add to that four?
