I want you to go ahead and put a "C" over your 10 at the top of this if you haven't. And I want you to take a look at the part one on your paper. Yesterday, we looked at how pressure could effect the mantle, but now we need to look at something different. I want you to answer number one and two first and then we'll talk about it. This is just what you know before you come in my room to get you into the lesson. So, number one wants to know list a few things that you have seen float before. Number two wants to know what do you think might cause these things to float. So, first just make a little list of two, three things that you've seen floating before and then tell me on number two, if it's a hypothesis you may not know for sure that's fine, but what do you think causes them to float. Nathan.
Are we allowed to write both?
Yeah. Yeah, so right now, you're just going to make a little list on number one and then number two, you're going to tell me what do you think actually causes these things that you wrote down to be able to float. We're going to start with that first. This is just to get us thinking about what we're doing today. One and two, please. What do you think causes them to float? You might not be sure of the answer to number two, but I still want you to make a hypothesis. You don't have to write "I think because," but you can tell me what you think causes that. Number two's going to be harder than number one.
Yeah.
Let's take four things, tell me four things that you've seen float before. We'll take four, because we can probably sit here and name like 100. Cole, give me one.
Ice cubes.
Ice cubes. Sadie?
Boat.
A boat. Alex.
Shoes.
Shoes. And Emily?
Dog toy.
Dog toys, okay. Now, we know things can float and that's great. But, what do you think causes these things to float? Why do you think dog toys and a boat and ice cubes and things like that, why are they are going to be able to float. Ebony, what do you think?
The air in them.
The amount of air that's in them. Anybody else? Dylan?
They are less dense.
Okay. Sean?
Surface tension.
Surface tension.
Little air pockets that are in them.
Okay, air pockets.
I was thinking like the less density inside of it.
Okay,alright, we're going to take a look at that today. So, you've got a kind of idea, we're going to look at what causes something to sink and what effects if something floats. Alright, we have two parts that we are going to be going to our last stations for. So, let's take a look at part two last station observation. You have two setups at your lab station. You have a black tray that has three objects in it. You've got a bouncy ball, a marble and a styrofoam ball, alright? You also have a setup at your lab station that has liquids in cups. This is for part three. Alright, I don't want you touching this stuff yet. We're going to come back later and you're going to look at that stuff. I don't want any of the cups knocked over, I don't want any of the objects put into the cups, okay? These two things are separate, your black tray and the piece of paper with the cups are separate. What you're going to do first is use the black tray and the objects in it. You're going to tell me with the marble, the bouncy ball, and the styrofoam ball if we were to put these in water, which we are going to test them, but if we were to put these in water, do you think these objects would sink or float? So, you just go through and if you want you can just write an "F" or an "S." You're going to say what you think and I want you to wait until you get to your lab stations so you can pick them up, feel them to see, that might make a difference in your guess. Then, I also want you to tell me why. While you are at your lab station, float or sink in water and why. You're not going to do the did it actually float because we're going to look at that when we come back. These are our results. So, you're going to do the first two columns, float or sink, why, float or sink, why, float or sink, why.
Then we are going to come to that?
And we are going to come back, and we're going to do an observation together. So these two columns have got to be filled out before you get back to your seats. Got it? Let's go.
Marble, sink. Rubber, float. [Background Chatter]
Rubber, float. Styrofoam, float.
The marble will probably sink, it's heavy.
It has no air in it.
Bouncy ball. The bouncy ball probably can float.
Yeah.
I mean it's not light,
It's gonna float. Bouncy ball, same thing.
Bouncy ball, heavy. Marble, heavy with no air pockets. No--
This one will definitely float because it's lightweight and it has these little pores.
This bounces a lot,  his bounces a little bit and this bounces not at all.
Yeah, but this one, but this one [Background Chatter]
If this one can float, then why not think that one could float?
Okay.
If you don't go with your group, that's okay, but you still need to a connection. If you are finished before the timer goes off you need to come back to your seat.
This will float.
This will fall. [marble ball hits surface]
Fail.
If you finish, you need to come back to your seats. You guys all finished? I want to go ahead and take a look, before we see the results. Before we look at the results and test this, I want to see what we think. So first off, let's start with the marble since it's at the top. Raise your hand if you think the marble will float. Okay, so we're all together on this one, it's not going to float. Who can tell me why they're thinking it's not going to float? We'll take like three guesses, three explanations. JC?
It's heavy, with no air pockets.
Heavy with no air pockets, good. Frayla?
It can't capture air, it can't float.
Can't capture air, can't float. Alright and Emma. Heavy and solid.
Heavy and solid. Alright, now what about the bouncy ball. Raise your hand if you think this is going to float. Alright, there's a mix.
What, that's heavier than the marble.
Well, let's hear -- [Background Chatter] Somebody give me an explanation for why it would float. If you guessed float tell me why you thought that. Sean. Because there's air inside.
Okay, there's air inside. Alex.
I dropped it in the pond and it still floated.
Bouncy ball floated in the pond when you did it before. Ali. I've seen it happen.
Okay, you've seen it happen. Now, some of us said it would sink. Why did you say it would sink? Matt Weaver.
Because it's heavy.
It's heavy.  Frayla. [Background Chatter] Okay, Jared. [Background Chatter] Okay, so prior experience. Now, last one is our styrofoam ball. Float, raise your hand. Alright, somebody give me a reason why it's going to float. We're all together on this one, too. We all agree the marble is going to sink, we all agree the styrofoam ball is going to float. Matt Cook.
It's light and has air pockets.
It's light and has air pockets. Alex? [Background Chatter] You're talking alot of things, the pond was last time, okay. Frayla. It's very lightweight [Background Chatter]
Okay, alright, let's test it out. We're just going to test it out upfront here, so I'm just going to use this big beaker. What do we want to see first?
Marble.
Bouncy ball.
Alright, record sink for your actual. I guess we'll do bouncy ball, we'll just go in order. Alright, bouncy ball, ready? The moment of truth. [cheers] And styrofoam ball.
Yeah.
A different bouncy ball didn't float.
But you saw the bouncy ball I was using, right?
Yeah.
So, it was fair, right?
Yeah.
Very simple, but let's take a look at what's going on. For number four, I'd like you to tell me, I want you to answer first and then we'll discuss. What I'd like you to tell me, why do you think some of these objects were able to float, while others were able to sink? And I want you to be specific. At the beginning, I asked you the same question on number two in prior knowledge. Why do you think some of these things float. I want you to revisit that question again. So, why do you think the marble and the bouncy ball sank and the styrofoam ball was floating. I want you to be specific on number four. I want you to answer first on your paper and then we're going to share, okay? What kinds of things did we say for number four? Now that we've looked at this in a different way. Before, I just asked you to think of things in your past that you've seen float. Now, we've looked at our marble, our bouncy ball and our styrofoam ball. What did you say? Nick.
Bouncy ball didn't have enough air to keep it up and it was too heavy.
Okay, anybody else say anything. Nick said, bouncy ball didn't have enough air to keep it up so it sank. Anybody say something different? Ebony?
Density and buoyancy.
All right, what do you mean density and buoyancy? Okay, Frayla?
I said that some objects had air holes and some were just solid.
Okay.  Now let's think of this in a different way. We've got this really small marble and we've got a much larger styrofoam ball. So, normally if something's smaller, you think it's going to be lighter, it should float. Something heavier, this is much larger, but it didn't sink. If I have one book, if I'm carrying one book versus carrying five books, that's different because five books are bigger than one book. So, what is going on with the amount of stuff in the marble and the amount of stuff in the styrofoam ball. Is it the same amount of stuff in the same amount of space? Does the marble have the same amount of stuff in the same amount of space that the styrofoam ball does? Which one has more stuff, more matter in a smaller space. I want you to talk with the person sitting next to you for one minute. Okay, so, we've done this before. Okay, so, marble's number one, styrofoam ball, two. Which object has more stuff, more matter, packed in a smaller space? On the count of three, right here, marble one, styrofoam ball two. One, two, three.
Marble. Good, marble. So, let's write that down. This is pretty much what number five is asking you. So, when comparing the marble to the styrofoam ball, which one has more mass, more matter, more stuff in a smaller amount of space, which we call volume. That would be the marble, alright. People today, if you flip over to the next part, I've heard the word density a couple times and density is kind of.
