So, these two are gonna combine and make six X squared?
Yes.
Okay and then what about this guy?
Just bring him down.
Alright, what about her?
You can bring her down.
Okay.
That's a four X to the fourth, not four X squared.
Ah, thank you. Four X to the fourth. And is this term positive or negative?
Positive.
And what about this term?
Positive. And what do we call this guy? [inaudible] Rock on, okay good, good, good. Alright, easy one, you ready? Three X times X squared plus four X minus two. And this time we're multiplying, what kind of monomial is that?
Linear.
Linear, good. Times a quadratic what?
Trinomial.
Trinomial, awesome. Go ahead and distribute that and see what you get. When you think you have an answer do you wanna show it to the person next to you and see if you agree or disagree with each other? Alright, alrighty. So. Any exciting disagreements?
No.
Nothing.  No one differs from anyone else?
No.
Larry Thayer.
He just forgot to write his [inaudible] down.
Okay, but now you're cool? So, everybody either feels like they got the same thing or they fixed what thought they had? Alright, that's boring. Okay, so what do get when you your first product done?
Three X cubed.
Alright, and then?
12 X squared.
And then?
Six X.
And then?
Nothing, it's simplified.
It's done? Okay. So, we ended up with a cubic trinomial. Now, here's what I wanna show you. Somethin' a little different, because what's the, raise your hand if you can tell me the verb we did here.
Cubic?
We been talkin' the verb.
Distributed?
We distributed and we also what?
Simplified.
Which one's right? They're both, we simplified and we used distributing in order to simplify. Okay, so I'm gonna put a verb up here. And I'll even put distribute because that's specifically what we did. Now, here's what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna give you a different thing. I'm gonna give you this. I'm gonna give you four A cubed plus two A squared minus 10 A. And I'm gonna spice this up just a little bit, I'm sorry about that, change that 10 A to a 40 A. Alright.
It's already simplified.
It's already simplified, okay. So, I can't give you simplify for a verb. I'm gonna give you a different verb. Now, there's a better word than what I'm about to put up here. This isn't really a math word, we're gonna replace it with a better one very shortly. And here's a clue. Undistributed. How do you undistribute? Let's shove this expression that you said's already simplified, in a time machine. Imagine you got like a, have you guys ever seen like fast feed photography where there's a seed? And it's like they speed up the footage and you see the seed germinate and you see the little stem grow, and it's kind of all jerky and everything. Okay, can you imagine playing that backwards and you have a little sprout and it goes back in and it ends up as a little seed. Right? Imagine that this was on the page as a final answer and we put it in backwards to see how it might have started as a math problem.
Do you use the [inaudible]?
You can do that?
Do you use like the factor tree?
Say that a little louder, Alec.
Do you use the factor trees?
Alec, that's interesting that you asked. Alec is asking about our warm-up problem today, which was a throw-back to when you guys were in elementary school and you talked about things called factor trees. And with factor trees we talk about how you can take a number and use a sledgehammer and kind of bust it up [claps hands] into it's what?
To it's factors.
To its factors and we keep goin' until we can't do it anymore, right? Huh.
The deal with that is you have to figure out what was originally inside and outside of the parentheses. You just gotta kinda ignore the A, I guess.
Even ignoring the A like, I don't know if putting it in a facts tree you really put it into parentheses. 'Cause you don't really have a whole lot to work with there, to put it back into parentheses, I don't know. It's kinda going against every fiber of my being and--
[laughs] Like why would you make a math problem out of a perfectly nice number?
Yeah.
Okay, that's interesting, we'll come back to that cuz that's a really good point. Why would you take like a 12 and turn it into a math problem, what good does that do? Yeah, what good is that? We'll come back to that, that's an excellent question. With big answers. Yes sir, what do you think?
I forgot what I was gonna say.
Ya sure? Lauren, what d'ya think?
Isn't this kinda like checking it?
Lauren just said something interesting. She said "Isn't it kinda like checking it?" So, when you check an equation for example, what do you do?
Put it back in [inaudible].
So, when you solve an equation, it's kinda like tying a knot. And then when you put it in, put in the solution and you check it it's kinda like untying the knot to see if comes out the same way.
But we don't have an equation to plug those into.
You're right. Carolyn, what were you gonna say?
Okay, so you know how yesterday, I know this is kind of off subject but I--
That's okay.
You know how yesterday like you showed us this problem on our worksheet and it was like three times the binomial or whatever? When you said we were gonna do those today?
Can you be specific with the problem so I know what exactly.
It was number 50 on--
Oh, oh you mean the problems that look like this.
Yeah. the ones that we said we've already done but we really haven't.
Like this? And you guys wanted to make this, what did you wanna make this? [Inaudible] X squared, oh it feels so right, doesn't it? We'll come back to that in a second. That is sort of related to this. What were you gonna say Zach and then we'll take a closer look.
I was just gonna say, couldn't there be different, like when you unsimplify that, couldn't there be different answers? Or is there only one correct answer?
Can someone restate what he's sayin' here? Or what do you think he means by that? Sam, what do you think he means by that?
I think he means that when like you unsimplify it it can be with the two parentheses or it can be with one parentheses and the term in front of it.
So, you're sayin' maybe it's like this and there's something here. Or maybe, it's like this?
Yeah.
'Cause this looks, I'll tell you, this looks an awful lot like the answer we got here. And this didn't start off with a number that was distributed necessarily like this one. It started off like this, didn't it?
How do you figure out how to throw it backwards? 'Cause that's just like...
You know what, let's start with the easier one. Which one of those is less complicated, the blue one or the orange one?
The blue one.
I'd agree, let's start with this way and then maybe we can go up to the orange. So if I wanted to, again this is not a math term, we're gonna use a better term in a little bit. If I were to quote undistribute, or use a vacuum cleaner to suck something out of all three of these terms, would you agree that it has to be the same thing that we suck out of each one? In other words, can I pull a four out of this and an eight out of this?
yeah.
Okay.  Any suggestions? Let's just focus on the coefficients, any suggestions on what I can pull out?
A two.
A two, okay. Anything else?
Four?
Can I pull a four, let's go door to door. Can he give me a four? Can he give me a four? Can she? So, if there was a four out there I would have to think what was in there to distribute a four two to make two. I'm gonna avoid fractions here.
Yeah see, he's avoiding fractions.
I could, I could technically pull out anything. But with the factor tree we did at the beginning of class, typically when you talk about, that's a good point. When we talk about factors we stick with whole numbers. Okay? Or maybe even integers, but we usually don't go into fractions. Sam, what're you thinkin'?
To unsimplify it, couldn't you put in one of those boxes that we did yesterday for the terms? Like put it in the middle and then find what it is?
Oh yeah.
Why, you're talkin' when we were doing [Background Chatter] this. [Background Chatter] And then ask ourselves what would go here, that's a weird question mark. What would there and what would go there? That's interesting. Alec, what are you thinking?
Couldn't you take out an A with that two? Like on the problem?
Since it all has A's? If you can take out a, can you put out an A, like you took out the two? [Background Chatter]
Can he give up an A?
Yes.
Can he give up an A?
Yes.
She give up an A?
Yes.
Well, let's try that, let's try that, that's interesting. So if I were to quote, and again, we're not gonna use this word much after the next. Would you, if you were to quote undistribute a two A from four A cubed, what would that look like? What would have to be here?
It would have to be a two A squared.
Well okay, let's keep goin' and then we'll check to see if this makes sense. I'll get your question in one second, Caroline. So then what would be next? [Background Chatter] So, the two from the two would leave a ghost one. And then the A from the A squared would be a what, Oscar?
I was thinkin' one A.
One A, alright I'd like that. And then the two A from the negative 40 A would be a what?
Negative 20.
Negative 20 A? [Background Chatter] So, now we're back to what Justin said. We've taken a perfectly nice, simplified polynomial and turned it into a math problem. Let's see if this is even right. What do you think we could do to check ourselves like Lauren suggested?
Do the problem.
What do you mean do the problem?
Simplified.
Okay, so let's simplify it real quick. What's two A times two A, and no peeking?
Four A squared.
What's two A times two A cubed, I mean squared? Four A cubed, good. And what's two A times A?
That's two A squared.
What kind? Positive two A squared. And two A times negative 20?
Negative 40 A.
Oh, it worked!
Yeah. [clapping]
I have a question.
Yes, ma'am.
What exactly is the point of this?
That's an excellent question. Shhhhhh, ready? Why on earth would you do such a horrible rotten thing? [Background Chatter] Well, one day, shhhh. One day what if you had this beast?
Holy Cow!
Whoa!
Do you guys know where to start? No, I don't know. But, check this out. Didn't you just say we could take this and turn it? That's the same thing we had, right? So, can I factor that and turn that into two A times two A squared plus A minus 20? Are you cool with that? Are you okay if I just leave the bottom? Two A squared plus A minus 20. Anybody have an idea what might happen now? [Background Chatter] Did you guys know that you've been doin' that since the fourth grade?
No.
Yes, you have. Just with much less obnoxious numbers. What does 16/32, what does that, let me use another. What does that simplify to? Here's why, you guys probably already knew this. Let's leave the 16 alone, and isn't 32 two times 16?
Yeah. Ohhh!
That's the math. That's the math that justifies simplifying fractions like you've been doin' since you were like eight years old.
That's cool.
What other occasion, this is gonna be helpful. How do you undo plus or adding when you're solving equations?
Subtraction.
Subtraction, you call in the opposite, right? How do you undo multiplication?
You divide.
Divide, well here's what we're leading up to. How are you gonna undo the squared? Factoring busts up the squared for us. And it's gonna be a very important tool when we're solving, what kind of equations do you think we can call these? [Background Chatter] Think about it. Look at the degree.
Oh, quadratic.
Quadratic equations. [Background Chatter] Alright, let's take a look at another one. Let me have you undistribute one again. We need a better word for this. Did we call this unmulltiplying?
No.
What did we call the verb here, what was the verb on this?
Division?
