These colors.
What color is this? Yellow, oh my gosh, did you find a lot of leaves that match this color? No? You forgot to do it? Well let's do it right now. Alright, go ahead and put it there. What other ones are yellow? Mmm. That's a yellow one. Is that yellow? Okay, put it right there. Let's see. If we put these two together, do they match in color?
no.
No, so you might not want to put that one in. (background chatter)
Okay, wow. So put it here, you've already given it a check. So now, what I want you to do, by looking at the sheet, I want you to sort by size. What does size mean?
If something is bigger.
If something is bigger or smaller. Now which measurement, which size are you going to sort by? Big or little?
Big.
Okay, so all your big leaves, put them in the middle. Okay. (background chatter)
You decide how you want to sort them. So if you want to use both baggies, that's okay. If you want to just use one, that's okay, too. Okay, that's okay, that's okay, too.
I noticed that you haven't started sorting yet. So which one do you want to sort by? Or do you want to make up your own?
I like to do this.
Yeah, color.
Color? Okay, so ok, what color are you going to choose?
I'm gonna choose brown. Jennifer is that ok? You have to ask your partner. Sort by brown. So put all the leaves that match, the brown, in your work space. Ok, let's see what's going on over here. Ok, well let me see this. Let me see that, please. Ok we are going to work with partners. I know sometimes it can be hard to work with partners, because you're trying to make a choice and maybe one person wants to do one thing, and maybe one person wants to do another so we're gonna work together to figure this out. Well, let's get working.
he's laughing. How do you want to sort your leaves now. Let's get our workspace in the middle. I notice you already sorted by color, so now how do you want to sort? By shape? Ask your partner if that's ok. Ask your partner if that's ok. Ok, is this the shape you want to sort by? Oh, this is pretty tricky. See if you have any more leaves that match this shape. How can you describe this shape? How can you describe that shape? So you're going to look for ones that have little points? So you're actually sorting by points. Yes, am I hearing that right? So look at your leaves, and look for ones that have teeny tiny points. Look at your leaves, so look at your leaves here. Ones that have teeny, tiny points. It has points, its very tiny. Does it have points? No, no side points? Yes, does it have some side points? Do you think that belongs here? Oh, really! I loved how you used your magnifying glass to find those little details. Keep on looking through yours, Jennifer because I have a feeling that you are going to find some more. Take a look at these points and take a look at these points. You're sorting by points, right? Are those little points or big points? Little or big? Little? Are they little like this? Are you sure? So you think this belongs here? Okay. (background chatter) Don't worry about your name for right now. I've noticed that you've sorted by every way. Now, are you ready for the challenge? Can you make up your own way to sort? Something that we didn't talk about on Friday? Oh, I bet you could. Yeah, well let's think a little bit more. Now I want you to look very very closely at these leaves. What's something that's the same about some of them? That's the question that you should be asking yourself. What's the same about some of these leaves?
They have dots.
Really, they have dots? (background chatter)
Remember we had colors up here. Andrew just said something. Some of these had dots. Do you see dots on some of your leaves? Yes, do you think that's a good way to sort? So wow, see I thought you said you couldn't figure out another way. So, I want you to put all of the leaves with dots on your workspace. (background chatter) Okay, how are we sorting here? (background chatter) That's okay. The way you're doing it is perfect. All you need to shoot for is to keep count of what you've done so far. So let me come to you. I've noticed that you had sorted by color so far. Which one is next, which one would you like to do next? Okay, which one do you want to do? It's up to you. Do you want to sort by big leaves? Is that okay, Monica? Okay, so look at your leaves, and sort by size. Now find all of your leaves that are big. Uh oh, does this one belong there? Does this one belong there? Okay, wow. Amazing. I like how you're really looking at your leaves. Absolutely, that one's very big, nice job. (children talking) (chimes ring) I really love how children stopped working. They put their hands up. Friends, can I share something that I noticed? Is that okay? When I was walking around, I noticed children using their eyes and sometimes their hands to explore their leaves. Some of you figured out new ways to sort your leaves. And I can't wait for those kids to share their ways. Some of you went ahead and you looked at what we talked about on Friday. Which was also a really great way to use a resource in our room to help us sort. I just want to remind everybody that your job right now is not to touch your leaves. Your job right now is not to touch your leaves. Your leaves are down. Because it's important for scientists to stop what they're doing and share what they have noticed. Let's take a peek. This is a graph, does anybody recognize this graph? Does it look like something we already do? What is it, raise your hand if you want to share. It kind of looks like you use something, it's something we do every, almost every day. Brian?
[child] Um, the calendar.
[Teacher] Yes! And what in our calendar, sweetheart, looks like that?
The weather.
[Teacher] Oh, I love how you're thinking. Absolutely right, our weather calendar looks like this. Today, friends, we're going to share how you sorted. And then, I'm going to go ahead, I'm going to color in boxes. and then at the end we're gonna see. What was the most popular way to sort? What was maybe not the most popular way, and if anyone had a different way to sort. Okay? So, just give me a thumbs up if you sorted by size. Look at your sheet, look at your sheet. And give me a thumbs up if you sorted by size today. Let's see. And actually, I'm only going to ask one partner to put their thumb up. Because I'm only counting partners. So, one group, two groups, three groups, four groups, five groups, six, seven, eight groups, nine groups, ten groups, eleven groups, twelve groups. Uh oh. Do I have enough spaces?
[children] No.
Oh my gosh, I'll have to add them. Eleven, twelve, so there were twelve groups
[Child] There's thirteen.
that wanted, that sorted by this kind.
[Child] Mrs (unclear), you forgot mine. Okay, anybody sort by shape today? Anybody sort by shape today? Okay, keep your thumbs up. One, two, okay. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. Wow, ten groups sorted by shape.
[Child] Mrs (unclear) you keep forgetting mine. Mrs (unclear) you keep forgetting mine. Okay friends, before we continue going on with that, did you sort by another way today? Did you sort by another way, that wasn't something we talked about on Friday? Emma, did you sort by a different way today? Oh sorry, you're two. Joel, and Emma, I'll come to you. (child talking)
What's another way you sorted? (child talking) Okay, did someone sort by a completely different way that's not on your chart? Andrew?
Dots.
Dots, did anybody sort by dots today? Yeah, okay. What's another way you sorted your leaves? Catherine? Counting the points. Okay, now that was a way that we sorted on our sheet, but that's okay. How's it different? (child talking) So you were looking for nine points, okay? So friends there's so many different ways you can sort, and I just want you to put your hands down.. Because there's so many different ways you can sort, and there's many more ways than just what we practiced today. As scientists and mathematicians, we're gonna continue sorting and looking for similarities, things that are the same things, and things that are different. Give yourself a pat on the back. Thank you so much, friends, for doing your best job today.
