A lot of people thought the mass of the water in the bag would be less than the mass of the ice cubes in the bag. How many people? One, two, just three of you. Okay. Cameron, do you want to start us off with your reason why?
Because the, 'cause you can put water in a water bottle to put in the freezer, then that water bottle will like, explode, because it has so much ice in it.
Okay. So because the water, when it freezes, expands, then therefore, you're saying it has more mass?
Yeah.
When it's frozen.
Yes.
But when it melts, it doesn't take up so much space, so it has less mass.
Yes.
Okay. Michael. Do you or are you on the same idea as far as more, as far as thinking there's less? Was your reason the same as his or do you have a different reason why it's going to be less?
Mine was the same.
[Voiceover] Same idea?
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Okay. Hannah, you got a thought or something?
Well, isn't it like, the same? Isn't it, like, the same thing because it's the same thing. It's just expanding, but it's going to have the same mass.
[Voiceover] When you're saying it's the same thing, what do you mean by the same thing?
Like, if you have water in a water bottle, like it does expand or whatever, but it still has the same amount of water so it still has the same mass.
[Voiceover] Okay, so Hannah's saying it doesn't matter that it expands. It's still the same amount of stuff, and therefore it should still have the same amount of mass. Is that correct? 'Kay. Houston, idea on that?
Well, about the water bottle thing, it would be opposite to this 'cause when you start with water, it takes up the entire bottle. But the bag, the ice is the one taking up the minimum space of when it freezes an entire bag. So it wouldn't.
So are you saying if we let the ice cubes melt, are you saying the mass is going to go up? It's going to increase?
Yeah.
Okay. Colby?
I'd say that when a solid turns into a liquid, its form changes, but not its mass.
[Voiceover] Okay, so kind of the same idea as Hannah. Only you're talking about the actual forms then. It can change form without changing mass. Hannah says it's okay to expand because it's still the same amount of stuff.  Okay. Michael's got another thing thing to talk about.
Well when you put, like, the water in the bottle, and then you, like, freeze it, then you unfreeze it, then there's less water than what you started with, and it probably would change the mass.
[Voiceover] Why is it, so you're saying the amount of water you put in first before you freeze it is more than the amount of water after you thaw it back out?
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Do you have a reason why that might be?
Well, no. it's just (mumbles).
[Voiceover] Okay, any other ideas on this one? Okay, how many people thought the mass would increase, then? How many people said the mass would increase? A couple of you. Jared, why don't you tell us why you think the mass would increase.
I thought the mass would increase because water weighs more than ice. Like if you pick up a bottle of water that's frozen, it doesn't weigh as much as a bottle of water with water in it.
Okay. So Jared says that water weighs more than ice. Correct? Anybody else have a different idea? Anna?
[Voiceover] Well, because ice floats on water so that means it has less mass, so if it thawed back out, then it'd weigh more.
Okay. So Anna's using the example that she's seen ice floating on water, therefore she's saying the ice must have less mass than water. Correct? Is that what your'e saying?
[Anna] Mm-hmm.
Colby, you got something to say about that?
I have something to say about that. It will stay the same going off of what she's saying.
Oh, going off of what she's saying. Okay, go ahead, then.
Ice is pretty much the same as, it's water, it's frozen water, so it still has the same density as water, it's just colder. So, if it's colder, it floats. Ice because it's cold, it floats in the water.
[Voiceover] So you're saying the floating of ice has nothing to do with its density or its mass, it has to do with its temperature. 'Kay. Houston?
Well, I think the only reason ice floats is because an ice would weigh less because ice isn't completely full. There's some air in there.
Okay. So Houston's saying there's some air trapped in there that was not in the water beforehand. Okay. Anybody else? Anybody want to have any other arguments about why the mass should stay the-- Oh, sorry. Anna.
[Voiceover] Oh, okay. I disagree with Colby how he said that it floats because it's cold when heat rises, and so if it's cold, wouldn't it sink if it had to do with the temperature?
Okay, so Anna's saying that heat rises and cold sinks, so you don't think it has to do with temperature?
[Voiceover] Yeah.
Okay. Colby, response to that or are you...?
Well, in water, it works differently. Warm water actually sinks more to the bottom actually, and cold water's more on the top.
[Voiceover] Alright.
So if you put cold in ice, it will float above.
[Voiceover] Okay. Oh, I have some hands up now. Michael?
Well, when you're in the lake for example, the warm part's on top, and the deeper you go the colder it gets because heat rises.
[Voiceover] So you're using your experience in swimming or something in a lake.
Yeah.
[Voiceover] It's colder the deeper you go, warmer towards the surface, you're saying?
Yeah, so the ice cube must have oxygen in it because when we hold our breath, we float up.
[Voiceover] Okay.
When we have no air, we go down.
[Voiceover] Okay, so you're saying an ice cube has air trapped in it, that's what's causing it to float. Is that what you're saying? And Hannah, were you gonna agree with her as far as the lake water temperature thing?
Yeah, so when you put your sweater or something in the water, it's like the top is usually more warm (mumbles) colder.
[Voiceover] Okay. Alright. Now people who think the mass is going to stay the same. Who are those people? Who thinks the mass will stay the same? Gavin, why don't you give us the reason why you think it's going to stay the same?
I think it's going to stay the same because nothing's lost when it melts. Nothing goes away. It's still the same thing.
[Voiceover] He's saying it's going to stay the same because nothing is lost. When it melts, it doesn't get lost. Okay. Anybody else who says it's going to stay the same have something to add? Gabe?
I said that...
[Voiceover] Just talk louder.
I said that it'll stay the same because there's still the same amount of water melted or frozen, and even if it's in a bag, if it melts, and tries to... break down into gas, then it's still in the bag so it won't go anywhere.
[Voiceover] So Gabe's saying that it doesn't matter if it's frozen as an ice cube, if it's melted as water, or even, he's even going as far as saying that even if the water, liquid starts turning into a gas, it's still going to be the same because nothing's leaving the bag. Is that what you're saying? He's going even a step further, he didn't even mention anything about turning into a gas, but he's saying even if it does that, it's still not going to change. Right? Houston.
Well, I disagree with that because if you take a frozen lake the ice is only on top, it doesn't freeze all the water.
Okay. Hannah.
I agree with what he said. Even if there's air bubbles in the ice, then after it melts, the air bubbles, it's still in the bag. It's still concealed in the bag. (mumbles)
[Voiceover] So sounds like the people who are for it, staying it's the same are really sticking with the fact that everything's in the bag. Nothing's out of the bag or leaving or coming in, and then the people who are thinking it's going to increase or decrease have a lot of ideas about ice having more mass than water as a solid, and then some of that's through the temperature. Michael, one more before we move on.
About how it all stays in the bag, well, when you melt water it sweats. So wouldn't it lose some of that. (mutters)
[Voiceover] So are you saying some of the moisture's going to be on the outside of the bag?
Like, comes off the bag. If you have it on the table, then it comes onto the table.
Like how it has a (mutters)
[Voiceover] Okay, so here's my question to you then. That water that's on the outside of the bag that you're talking about? You were saying that water came from the inside of the bag?
Well, it sweats from the... the compression of the temperature.
[Voiceover] So you're saying that's what's causing the mass to go up, then.
Wouldn't that cause the mass to go down?
[Voiceover] Okay, so that's my question to you, then, is where was that water on the outside coming from?
Inside?
[Voiceover] How is it getting to the outside?
I don't know. Some scientific theory. (laughs)
[Voiceover] (laughs) Okay. Does anybody agree with her idea that some of the water from the inside might be getting to the outside?
[Students] Yeah.
[Voiceover] Do any of you guys have an idea of how that might be happening to help her out? James, how do you think that water might be getting to the outside?
[James] The moist is like, when it... What's it called? Wait a minute. The carbonate, the condensation, it, like, seeps out, like the air, it seeps out.
So somehow you're thinking it's seeping through the bag. Colby?
I know how that happens, actually. Because the water in the air will stick to the bag because it's colder. So it'll stick there and just condense there so it'll look like it's (mutters). It's just water from the air.
So you're saying the water that forms on the outside is not coming from the inside? It's coming from the outside, which is different than what they're saying. Cameron, did you have any other ideas  how it might be getting out there? 'Kay. Alright. So we got some different ideas on that one. Let's move on now to our alka-seltzer problem. (student mutters) This time, last one we started with people who thought the mass would decrease. Let's start with the people who think the mass will increase. So people who think the mass is going to increase with the alka-seltzer. Who are those people? Alright. We're going to have Kyle start us off on this one. What's your reason why, Kyle?
Well, when the tablet dissolves I think after dissolving, (mumbles) water will rise and make more.
[Voiceover] Make more water?
Yeah.
Okay. So Kyle thinks the reaction is going to create more water, and therefore, more mass.
Sam, different idea than that for why the mass is going to increase? (Sam mutters)
Okay, so you're thinking it's going to increase because you're adding something to the water. Colby?
I think it's going to increase because the alka-seltzer tablet will release gases which will increase the weight of the bottle inside.
[Voiceover] Okay so the gases that is going to be created from the reaction are going to add to the mass. Jake, you had your hand up for the mass increasing, correct? Do you have a different reason why it's going to do that? (Jake mutters)
So basically saying, the same thing as Colby. More gases. Hannah.
Aren't the gases from the water in the alka-seltzer, aren't they going to just stay the same?
[Voiceover] Good question. So what you're saying, then, is if the gases are coming from the alka selzter tablet in water, so what are you saying the mass will do?
I think it's going to stay the same. Actually, it'll decrease.
[Voiceover] It'll decrease? Okay, why do you think it's going to decrease?
I don't know.
Okay. (chuckles) Who could come up with the reason as to why it might decrease? Cameron? Why is it going to decrease?
Because the acid from the, from the, from the tablet, the acid from the tablet is going to release gases, and the water will go out of the beaker.
How is the water going to get out of the beaker?
Because the tablet will react with water, and the gases will float away.
But isn't there a lid on top?
Maybe the lid will pop off or something.
Let's assume the lid is does not pop off. Let's assume I have it on there tight enough that it's not going to pop off.
Then, since air is lighter than water, then that means that the air, that means the mass will decrease because the water will be like not as much, and there will be more gas in the container.
So. Correct me if I'm wrong. So you're saying that assuming the top stays on, it's still going to decrease. That's the decrease, right? Because the solid and liquid are going to turn into...
Gas.
Gas, and gas is lighter than solids and liquids. Is that correct? What you're saying?
[Cameron] Yeah.
Alright. Jared has something to say about that.
I think that the mass will decrease because the tablet will disintegrate and that mass part will be (mumbles) decrease.
Okay, so he's saying that the tablet disappears, then the mass will go down. That piece that the tablet's bringing to the table for mass is not going to be there anymore. Kevin, what are you thinking?
Pretty much the same thing that the tablet's going to dissolve into the water.
[Voiceover] And so mass will go down?
[Kevin] Yeah.
Okay.
[Voiceover] Who thinks the mass is going to stay the same? It's not going to change. Who thinks it will stay the same? Why don't you tell us why it's going to stay the same?
I think it's going to stay the same because the water, the alka-seltzer piece is a water, it's just in a different form. But everything is still (mumbles).
Okay. So you're saying because nothing's going away, it's still going to be the same. It's just in a different form. So kind of like what some people were saying about ice in the water. Gabe, do you have a different reason than that?
No, it was a lot like hers.
[Voiceover] It was the same as hers, pretty much?
Yeah.
Okay. Anybody got anything else they want to input on the alka-seltzer one? Why it might go up, down or stay the same before we move on?
Gavin?
I said it would probably go down because if you have a bunch of gas in a bottle, it'll probably weigh a lot less than a cup full of water, like the same amount.
[Voiceover] Okay, so you're going again with the idea that gas has less mass than the water and the tablet. And since we're turning them into gases, the mass will go down. James.
I said since the tablet is gonna be kind of shrinked, once it mixes with the water, it'll stand, making it a lot more liquidy and bigger and then the mass will get higher.
The mass will increase because it'll produce the... (James mutters) Alright. Let's go to burning paper. Alright.  Burning paper. Let's start with the people, this time, let's start with the people who think the mass will stay the same. People who think the mass still stay the same.
Colby's the only one. Morgan. Gabe. Not very many. Jasmine. Morgan, why don't you start us off for why you think it's going to stay the same.
I said the mass will stay the same because the air and everything else is still in the jar and it's not going anywhere.
Okay she says it stays the same because everything is still in the jar not going anywhere. Jasmine, you had your hand up. Do you think the same thing as her or do you have a different reason for why it would stay the same?
I agree with her.
[Voiceover] You agree with what she said?
Colby?
Burning stuff does not add. It's still the object, but it's more spread apart.
[Voiceover] Okay, so the mass stays the same, you said. It's just we're going to take up more space with it. Okay. Michael? No? Yes?
I was stretching.
[Voiceover] Hannah?
I disagree with that because it, when it burns, (mutters) I don't know if that's the word for it, but how it's (mutters) causing it all, when you burn wood in a fire, eventually all that will turn into ashes, so I don't think it has the same mass or anything.
[Voiceover] Okay. James, you got some more on that?
When that paper burns, it'll turn into charcoal which basically is lighter than paper, and then that'll make it so mass will be decreased.
Okay, so given the idea that we're taking the solid things, and we're changing them into maybe non-solids, so either liquids or liquid acids they're not gonna have as much mass as those. Edward, what do you think? Do you think this mass will go up, down or stay the same?
I think it will decrease.
[Voiceover] Decrease?
Yeah.
[Voiceover] And what's your reason for that?
'Cause when the paper burns, it turns into a gas, so some of it, and then gas is, has less mass than solid objects.
[Voiceover] Okay, so again, back to that gas is less mass than solid objects. Kayla, what do you think? Increase? Decrease? Or stay the same?
I thought it would decrease, like what Hannah--
