All the water goes into the jeans and this water dripped out the bottom.
Mmhm. So, it'll drip out the bottom as it dries and go into the ground. Okay. Other ideas about A? Other ideas about A? Okay. How about B? It disappeared. It no longer exists. It's gone forever. Maybe not forever, but it's gone. Anybody choose B? No choosers for B. Okay, how about C? It's in the air in an invisible form. Kyle.
I think it's evaporated into a gas, and you can't see it.
It evaporated into a gas and you can't see it. Okay, other ideas about C?
I just have similar to Kyle's, but water vapor, you can't usually see it.
Okay, so it became water vapor, which you can't see. Alright. How about D, it moved up to the clouds? Lots of Ds. How about Mina? What do you think?
Well, I think it evaporated, and then it went up, so.
It evaporated and went up. And when things evaporate, they form clouds?
Mm, no.
Okay. So who? Can you explain your ideas?
Well, it was like, actually, it did go into the clouds, because the water's still wet, so...
Okay, so when it evaporates, it goes to clouds. Alright. Other ideas about D? Moving to the clouds. Luke.
I do think that it turned into water vapor.
Okay.
But I think that maybe clouds are there and then it gets soaked up by clouds, sort of.
Okay. So, okay. Let's talk about some of these ideas. So, I'm hearing the word 'evaporate' from a couple different people. What does that mean, to evaporate? What are your ideas about that? Emmie.
Doesn't it mean to like, when the water gets at a certain temperature, it turns into a gas.
Okay, so when water gets to a certain temperature, it changes to a gas. Other ideas about evaporate, or what that means? When it changes to a gas, what's happening? Ideas about that? Mitch?
Well, maybe it first comes out of the machine, maybe the sun could make it heat a lot and sort of the bubble question, like maybe it could be a heat bubble under each town. Not be an actual bubble, but go up to the water cycle and then go, come back down (muttering).
Okay, so when you say 'go up to the water cycle' what happens to it?
It's evaporated up.
It's evaporated. And where is it when it evaporates?
In the clouds.
In the clouds. Okay, other ideas? Jake.
Well, when it evaporates, the way it works is the heat makes it so the atoms get, go farther apart, and that makes it change into the state of gas.
Okay, the atoms go farther apart. So, is it still water?
Yes, but in a different form.
Okay. Okay. Other ideas about evaporation? And how about clouds? So, some people are saying when it evaporates, it turns into a cloud. What is a cloud? Ethan, share?
I think it's like a gas.
Okay.
But then I think when it evaporates and goes up to the cloud, and then I think it will be turned into rain.
[Student] I agree. Yeah.
So, first it's a gas when it's a cloud and then it turns back to rain.
Uh-huh.
Okay. Jamie, other ideas?
I think a cloud is, like, water turning into mist, and it gathers in the cloud. So, when it gets dark, it builds up with more water, and then when it rains, all the, the cloud gets too heavy with water, and then it rains.
Okay, so it's a mist.
Yeah.
Is it a liquid or a gas?
A liquid slash, a liquid slash gas.
Okay, a little of both? Okay. Okay, alright. Let's move on. How about E? It changed into a new substance. No takers for E, new substance. Okay. How about F, it went to the sun? It went up to the sun. No takers for F either? There's a lot of hands I'm not seeing up. How about G? It broke down into atoms of hydrogen and oxygen. Alex?
I said that because, well, it goes up into the sky, and it must be really humid because it like, I can't remember, is it when the atoms separate, or, and because we're humidity-ing it? Yeah.
Okay, so it becomes more humid, and that makes the atoms separate? Is that what you're saying?
Well, not exactly. It's hard to find the words.
Okay. Can you try? It separates and that's what makes it humid?
Well, I don't know, I guess.
I'll come back to you. Keep thinking about it. How could you explain your ideas? Joey, what are your ideas?
I, can I go off of Alex?
Yeah.
Oh, so when hot air rises, so when the water gets to a certain temperature, I forgot who said that, but it, the atoms spread apart and change into a gas. And it would be more humid because hot air rises and the gas rises into the clouds.
Okay, so as the hot air rises, the gas rises with it? Is that what you're saying?
Mmhm.
Okay. And the water becomes hydrogen and oxygen as it goes up?
Mmhm.
Okay. Other ideas? Dylan?
Well, so, there's oxygen and hydrogen in the atmosphere, and the atmosphere is gas, and gas doesn't sit at the bottom. It's in the air, which means it's obviously floating, I guess. And so if water turns into vapor, which I think most of us know, and vapor can float, and obviously it's turning into a gas, like oxygen and hydrogen. And so how would water be able to float if it's turning into gases, it's breaking down into atoms of hydrogen and oxygen? It's still almost like a liquid gas, but if it wasn't a gas that consists of things like hydrogen and oxygen, how would it be able to float? How would it be able to turn to clouds?
Okay, so it can't be water still if it's going to be floating around in the air.
Well, yeah.
Is that what you're saying?
It's still water, but it's in a different form, that it has components that make up, it's pretty much a liquid gas, almost.
It's a liquid gas.
Yes, yeah.
Which makes it float in the air.
Well, yeah, gas. Gas can float, and hydrogen and oxygen.
Okay.
So, it becomes hydrogen and oxygen in the air?
Well, as it heats up, then it breaks, because as it heats up, then it creates vapor. Water evaporates, and so as it heats up, when it gets to that point, then it breaks down into atoms and everything else.
Okay, when it gets to the air.
Yeah, when it turns into vapor.
Okay, when it turns into vapor, that's when it becomes hydrogen.
Because yeah, that's how it, when the atoms of hydrogen and oxygen break down, I'm guessing that that means that that's when it's turning into vapor.
Okay. Okay, okay, great. Luke, other ideas?
I think it might become the combination of the two, because I think more than just one, because I think it does split into different atoms, which makes it a gas. And then, um, and then also it could go into the clouds, or something like in other parts of the answer.
Okay, so maybe it turns into this hydrogen and oxygen gas, but then goes to the clouds.
Yeah, because I think that that's kind of the only way to go to the clouds, and I think its probable that it would, so...
Okay. Okay, okay. Lots of different ideas. We're going to move on so that we can get to the others. How could we observe this? What could we do to know if some of these options are the right option, or be able to eliminate them as possible options? What could we do? Turn and talk to your partner, quickly. What could we observe? (class chattering) And see what happens? Okay. Would we be able to eliminate any of these if we agreed with Owen's suggestion? (class chatters) Eliminate F? How come?
Because the sun's very far away.
Okay.
And it's really, really hot, so.
Okay, if we did it in the classroom, would it be able to get to the sun? No, it'd be stuck in the classroom, right? Okay. Are there others that we might be able to eliminate if we did that? (class chattering) Good. Okay, let's hear your ideas. What could we do? How could we observe this scenario?
Trenton, I haven't heard from you today.
Okay, so to eliminate some of them, if soaked into the ground, you could check if the ground was wet or anything, and it moved up to the clouds. You could check if there's any clouds.
Okay. See if a cloud forms. Okay, Miley, other ideas?
I agree with Trenton, but I think I've seen them where the area's curved over, like our roof, and the sun is out, you can see mist kind of stuff coming out. And I think if we did that, then maybe we could observe something that could be useful.
Okay, what would we have to do, though, to set this up? What do we need? Owen.
You can wet a paper towel and then hang it from somewhere and then heat it by a light, and then, or you could have a fan.
Okay, heat it with a light or a fan. So, perfect. I like your idea. So, we have a cloth. It's wet. Is it wet?
Kind of.
Kind of? It's not wet enough? Should we make it a little more wet?
Yeah.
Okay, let me make it a little more wet. That better?
Yeah.
Okay. And in this scenario, this is hanging outside, right? Well, we're going to hang it in our classroom. And since we don't have a lot of sun today, we're going to make our own light energy with this lamp. So, don't look at the lightbulb because it's real bright. There we go. And we're going to set it up here. So as we watch this, which one of these, or which ones, might we be able to eliminate? So as we observe, what can we, how will we know which ones are true or not true? Let me give you a minute to think. I want to hear from someone new I haven't heard from yet. Who haven't I heard from yet? Augustine.
A, because I wasn't sure if the ground was wet or dry.
Perfect, yeah. It can't soak into the ground, right? So, we'll see if the counter is wet, if there's a puddle there, then we'll know that A is the correct answer. Excellent. Others that we might be able to eliminate just by observing? Jake.
B, it disappears and no longer exists, because nothing can't disappear. Something can't disappear unless it goes into a black hole.
Okay, will we be able to observe that, though?
No.
Not really, yeah. So, that one might be tricky, but that's good prior knowledge. Jamie, others that we might be able to eliminate?
We can tell if it moved up to the clouds, because there's no way it can move up to the clouds because there's a ceiling.
Yeah, there's a ceiling. Well, so if we saw a cloud forming in our classroom, right, then we'd know that it makes a cloud. But if we don't see a cloud, then we'll know that we can eliminate that one. That one's wrong. Good. Others that we can eliminate? Miley?
F, it went up to the sun, because it can't, we don't have a sun in the classroom.
If we saw it, right, gathering up the light, right, that might tell us that maybe F is true. But it can't get to the sun because it's stuck in our classroom. Good. Any others that we might be able to eliminate? Emmie?
We might be able to, well, C, because if the cloud isn't wet anymore, and you can't see anything or feel anything, we would know that that's true.
Okay, okay. So, if it disappears, we can't see it or feel it in the cloth, but we can't see it anywhere else, maybe we'll know that C is more likely. Okay, good. Very good. Excellent. So, we're going to keep observing for these things. Those are the things that we want to keep an eye out, look for a cloud forming, look for water puddling at the bottom, look for water gathering at the light. See if it chemically changed into a new substance, we might be able to see it, right, in our classroom somewhere. So, we'll be observing for that. Is it going to happen immediately?
No.
No, so we'll have to come back to this one. Keep looking back as we go. In the meantime, uh-oh. No, here we go. We'll go to the next one, next scenario. What's in the bubbles? So, turn to that scenario in your notebook if you're not there right now. What's in the bubbles? So, Hannah is boiling water in a glass teakettle. She notices bubbles forming on the bottom of the kettle that rise to the top, and wonders, "What is in the bubbles?" She asks her family what they think. This is what they say. So, who agrees with Dad? Who may agree with Dad? Owen.
Well, since it's being heated, and being heated from the bottom, the bubbles will form on the bottom as heat, and then the heat would make it rise to the top.
Okay, the heat makes it rise to the top. Good. Other ideas? Other people who agree with Dad? Mitch?
Well, I agree with Dad and Calvin.
Okay.
And for Dad, if the bubbles are heat, maybe the heat forms the bubbles and then the oxygen in the bubbles makes it float to the top.
Okay, okay. So, let's move on to Calvin then. Other thoughts about Calvin. Who agrees, the bubbles are filled with air? Reed?
I forgot.
Okay, we'll come back to you.
Anybody else agree with Calvin? Anyone I haven't heard from yet today? No? Trenton, anything for you to contribute?
Well, I didn't at first, and I don't really know if I do still, but like I kind of do, because with the water, all water has oxygen in it, which is kind of like air, and then the air could be in the bubbles because the bubbles would probably heat up and be at the bottom, and then the air would fill up from the water and go into the bubbles, and then (muttering).
Okay, so there's air in the water, and as it heats up, it comes out of the water. Okay, other ideas? Miley?
I agree with Trenton and Mitch, because they could be both filled with air, but they could be hot, because it's where the source of heat is.
Okay, alright. Reed, did you remember?
Yes.
Okay, go ahead.
Well, the heat can take the air out of the water.
The heat would take the air out of the water, like Trenton was saying.
And since air's lighter than water, it would rise to the top.
It goes to the top. Okay, good. How about Grandma? The bubbles are an invisible form of water. Anyone agree with Grandma? Rupo.
I said I believe with Grandma because I thought that they'd go up to the top. I thought it was just invisible because I thought it was just going up, and the cloud's just evaporating higher and higher.
Okay, so there are, the bubbles are evaporated water. (coughing) And then go away. Okay. Matthew?
Well, it had to be a form of water, because it came from water, I guess, and they're invisible, so yeah.
Okay, so it had to be water because it's coming from water, and you can't see it, so it's invisible.
Uh-huh.
Great. How about Mom? The bubbles are empty, there's nothing inside them. Who agrees with Mom? Who agrees with Mom? Jonathan?
I think that there's nothing inside the bubbles because how could anything get in the bubbles in the first place? How could that turn into bubbles?
Okay, how could anything be in there? Where would it have come from?
Yeah.
Okay. Anybody else agree with Mom? Anybody else agree with Mom? Okay, how about Lucy? The bubbles contain oxygen and hydrogen that separated from the water. Lots of hands. Who haven't I heard from today? Jodie.
Well, I don't really know why, because it just sounded more scientific. (laughing)
Sounds more scientific. Okay. Any other reasons?
No.
No? Alright. Kyle, can you add on to that?
I think in the water, when it's not hot, that there's oxygen and hydrogen and other things in it, and then when it heats up, it forms into, I don't know. It rises up.
Okay, so where did the oxygen and hydrogen come from?
I think it's part of the water.
It's part of the water. Okay. Good. Emmie?
Well, I know that, I'm pretty sure water is made of two oxygen molecules and one hydrogen molecule.
Opposite.
Oh, other way around.
Yup, two hydrogens and one oxygen. You're right.
Okay, and I'm with Lucy because bubbles usually kind of probably form by the water, and inside, and since the water's (muttering) the molecules, that that's what's happening.
Okay, so water--
