(student) ...so you can't count it out completely.
(Teacher) Hmm. So we have three things going on here. I hear exponential decay, I hear an upside-down parabola, and I hear a negative-sloping line. Red, why don't you chime in? I haven't heard from you. Are you going with decay? Are you going with decreasing line? You going with upside-down parabola? What had you guys decided?
We were going to go with decay but...
(Teacher) You were going to go with decay, okay
But, I changed my mind because decay, it keeps decreasing all the way. But MySpace, it got to a point where it stopped decreasing... and it was (inaudible) like what Rosetta said.
(Teacher) So it stopped decreasing, which is what you're saying, and you're saying that's in agreement with Rosetta. I have a serious issue with a line stopping. Can somebody talk to me about that? I have a serious issue with a line stopping or having some kind of decrease that then slows itself.
It's the end of the line. Slows itself. Colin, I haven't heard from you.
I don't think it's linear because the linear is going to signify that at one point there are going to be no users or people on MySpace. I agree with Elsie that it might be decay because it decreased, but decay doesn't ever touch the X-axis, which would signify there are no users.
(Teacher) Ah!
And there will always be users.
(Teacher) Oooh, what's somebody thing about that? Really, really, really significant comment that was just made by Colin. What do we think? The fact that it's never going to... how did you say it?
I said that the linear was going to, at one point, to hit zero, and with decay it's never going to hit zero. It's going to get really close but not touch it.
(Teacher) Jeffrey.
I agree with Colin. Because if it was a negative line, like a negative line, right? You're going to go past zero, and you can't have a negative amount of users, 'cause a line keeps on going forever.
(Teacher) Ok, does exponential keep going forever?
No. I mean yes! Yes, it does, but because it's so small that it never touches the X-axis, but it keeps on going so it just never hits zero.
(Teacher) So, if we all agree, are we getting closer to agreeing that it's exponential decay?
(female student) Yes.
(Teacher) If we are agreeing it's exponential decay, then what Jeffrey just said... what does that mean for MySpace the company? Will it go out of business?
(several students) no...
(Teacher) Based on what Jeffrey just said about an exponential decay, at the end. What does that mean for MySpace the company? What do you know about MySpace the company at this moment?
It's still low. 
It's still low, but is it in existence?
(several students) Yes
It is. Do you know what's keeping it You know?
I think because you're always going to have that one user account (laughter)
(Teacher) Ok, you might, you might always have that one user. There's something, though, that MySpace provides that other websites don't, that's very easy to do that other sites don't have. And this is what's keeping it from touching that X-axis. Do you know what it is? Alicia? Talk to us, I can't hear you.
Music?
(Teacher) Yes, Alicia, who is in the band, would obviously know this, right? Tell them what you do on MySpace, Alicia.
Bands can make pages and they can upload their songs and you can listen to them.
(Teacher) Yeah, you can upload your music on MySpace easier than any of the other sites. Very good, thank you for chiming in. Alright, let's shift gears from MySpace, now let's talk Twitter. Twitter, Twitter, Twitter. What do you think about the growth of Twitter? (background chatter)
Alright, keywords. Red, start me off with keywords and then we'll bounce to Pink and around the room. (clears throat) Give them your attention, ladies and gentlemen. Are you guys prepared and ready for Twitter?
Rush
(Teacher) I'm sorry, rush? (inaudible) Where, show me?
It's missing...something there
(Teacher) What's your keyword?
Rush
It's in the middle of the sentence.
(Teacher) In the third sentence. Oh, rush, is that what you said? Ok, just speak up, I'm getting old, I can't hear.
Growth continues steadily.
(Teacher) Okay... anything else?
Yeah, but it's at the tweets.
(Teacher) This, the tweeted?
Yeah.
(Teacher) It goes with this. Okay. So what do you guys pick for the growth? What function models Twitter's growth?
Exponential growth.
(Teacher) You think it's exponential growth, as well? Alright, is there a team? Pink, you're up.
I disagree with that. I think it's linear because it says that another keyword that they've given is with 40 million in May, that whole sentence right there.
(Teacher) Got it.
That's like a slope, if you think about it. With 40 million in May, 2009, 6 months later 60 million, and then 80 million in May 2010. The slope, it would be 20 million. So it's linear. It's going positive slope. (inaudible)
(Teacher) Hmm... filling out those listening labs? Pink just gave some hard core evidence. Red, do you have a comeback? Or have they won you over? You have a comeback. Let's hear it, Lenny, what's your comeback?
This can not be because (laughter) because it's going to get to a point where it's going to stop. It's not like we're going to take it like
(pink) Do you have a time machine? (laughter)
(Teacher) Ok, so let's leave... Lenny, I think exponential growth isn't going to stop and I think a line isn't going to stop, right? And I think that, if we think about the future... I think that's what Star is maybe trying to do, is predict the future. We don't really know. But from the language here in your text, the information you do know, I think 40 million then is pretty concrete evidence of slope. Do you agree?
yes
(Teacher) Yes? Anybody else want to chime in on this one that I haven't heard from? Maybe from... Elianna on Blue? Bleaker, I haven't heard from you. Carlia yet? What do you guys think? How 'bout anything you want to add about Twitter? Anything you want to add? Greg, go ahead.
Well what Lenny was saying, I cannot beat and I agree with them. That's it.
(Teacher) Ok, thank you! Any...?
I agree with Star because as you mentioned (inaudible) what this does or hope is that they'll be able to Tweet via text messages. And that's something that Facebook didn't offer. So the more things that... the more things that Twitter puts out there the other social networks is going to increase.
Ok, so as Twitter grows, you're saying the other networks might be slowed? Who though, is going to outperform it if it's a different type of graph? Who is going to outperform Twitter for sure, if Twitter is linear and the other one is a certain other graph we mentioned? (inaudible) Facebook, right? Because Facebook is what?
Exponential
(Teacher) Exponential. Very good. Ok! So let's go now to AIM. We're doing very well on time here. AIM. Who's going to start us off with AIM? Alright, Pink, you can start us off. (background chatter) Keywords and reasoning, talk to me.
Some key words we worked was AOL lost their dominance.
(Teacher) Lost their dominance. Okay? Yep?
And then we put continuous fielding is growth today.
(Teacher) Okay.
And we said that it was quadratic equations, because at one point it was really high, but then as time went by, it started decreasing, but then it started getting more popular again. Lately, teenagers liked using it, so it started going up again.
(Teacher) Ok. Is there another keyword up here that would help anybody? I think there's at least one more keyword that I haven't seen pointed up. Elianna?
Is it comeback?
Comeback? Where's comeback? (inaudible) Beautiful. Made a comeback and maybe even one more thing a little earlier. Jermaine? Thank you. Sorry, say that again?
Dominated
(Teacher) Dominated, very nice, Jermaine. So it started out dominating, then had to make a comeback. Does anybody want to add on to what Pink said about this being quadratic?
Which way?
(Teacher) Which way?
Would make it positive from earlier?
(Teacher) Positive what? Talk to me about the equation now.
Quadratic is always going to...
(Teacher) Do quadratics always go up?
(student chatter) no, go down too, parabolic
(Teacher) This parabola? They always look like this?
no
(Teacher) Think about inverses we learned through this year. Raise your hand and let me know what you want to say. Talk to me. Do parabolas always open upwards? Go ahead.
(male student) I just want to agree with them
(Teacher) You agree that it's a parabola?
Yeah, because in a parabola... it says that it started off dominating, but you're on top if you're dominating. Then it said that it made a comeback. That means at one point it would have to be decreasing and then to make a comeback they come back, they come back up.
(Teacher) Beautiful. Wanna add to that? Go ahead.
I was just going to say the other end (inaudible)
Alright, so I just want to make sure I answered Purple's question in the back. You asked which way? Take a look at this. This is what you're talking about. Could the parabola be like this? (background chatter) What would this mean if the parabola were down for the company?
If it was down, then that means it's imaginary. Right?
(Teacher) You're thinking of something about imaginary and it's not if it's down. That has to do with a negative. Right, if there's a negative A coefficient. Something else, though. What would this mean for the company's trend? DeShawn? Go ahead, DeShawn
They would have had a spiral at the bottom and then they would lift up
(Teacher) And come back down. Purple, are you alright with that now? You understand? This would not have worked based on what DeShawn just said. Here's my question for you on AOL. Why isn't AOL an absolute value graph? What starts high, comes down, and goes back up? We did do absolute value functions, right? Turn and talk first, and then you're going to tell me. Write that question down somewhere. I want to know why it's not an absolute value graph. (background chatter)
Oh, yeah, we did talk about these today (inaudible) (background chatter)
if every five minutes they add ten members but every five minutes you're getting ten members then every five minutes you're gonna lose ten members so parabola is not possible (inaudible) (background chatter)
(Teacher) Ok, guys... Bring it back. I want to know why isn't... Why didn't anybody say absolute value? I'm going to maybe put one over here, and then I have one more really important question about these graphs for you, and then we're in good shape. Absolute value... the reason I asked that is because that also starts high, comes down low and goes back up. I need some reasoning. Let's change it around, start with Gold and go around. Go.
I don't think it's an absolute value graph even though it kind of follows the same kind of trend. Because in the absolute value, it's Y is equal to absolute value of X, meaning that as time passed, they would be losing and gaining a constant amount of people. So like, if you gained ten members every five minutes, every five minutes you would be gaining ten members no matter what. Every five minutes, or when it goes down, every five minutes you'd be losing ten members. Whereas a parabola that changes is not constant, you can lose and gain power then they'd be equal to join or don't join and you can't guarantee that you're going to gain that amount of members every time that amount of time passed.
(Teacher) So would it be fair to say it's too con-
