[Male student] So our question was: What are the reasons why Holden has a sudden acceptance of letting Phoebe grow up. And I got this question because, I feel like the carousel represents growing up because (drowned out by other voices) you have to let people grab towards something they want or else if you're not letting them experience the world to its full extent then you're just sheltering them and they're just going to live a sheltered life. So they can't really do all the things that they have the possibility of experiencing.
Yeah, I agree with him, with Damon because I think the carousel symbolizes the ride through life. Because it never really stops, just continuously goes around and around. And the goal is to grab the golden hoop. And I think that symbolizes, I don't know, happiness because everybody tries for it and they keep trying even though they fall, they keep getting back up on that carousel and trying to grab it. And if you hold a kid back from trying to grab what he wants, it's just like no, I'm not going to let you go out there and try to get what you want. They're sheltering them from their own happiness, kind of. Because (inaudible)
I also agree with Brandon, but I also think that, let's just say Phoebe was on the carousel and she fell off. I don't know if Holden would go to her, but I think based on his character he would. But then I think that would be bad just because, like Brandon was saying, if you don't let them fall, if you don't let them make their own mistakes then they're not gonna learn from life. So like my dad, he's so overprotective. I think pretty much all parents are really overprotective of their kids, but you should just let them go out there and experience the world and learn from themselves. Not necessarily, because I think that's their fear, learning from their mistakes. So I just think it's better if you just let them go like a little bit at a time just so they can just figure out things in life.
I think people have a hard time letting go of any child, whether it's their brother, their sister, their actual child because it means that they're leaving soon and they're actually going to experience their own lives and then when it comes to a parent or an older brother or sister, they don't want you to experience the same thing that they did too, so they're like telling you what to do and it seems like they're telling you how to live your life, but they're giving you advice.
I think parents, the reason that they're so protective is because they know that saying ignorance is bliss, because it really is, and innocence is in a way, you know, because you don't know. And so they just want their child to be happy but inadvertently they're actually making them sad if they just won't relax so they can (inaudible)
And also, I think a lot of kids don't understand this but part of the reason why our parents have such a hard time letting go is because you were part of their lives for as many years as you've been born. They preciously try to take care of you and they may seem like they're trying to shield you from everything, but they're just trying to look out for what's best for you. But you can't think of it like, oh, once this one chance goes by, I'll never have it again. Because it really is like a carousel. You're gonna keep going on and you will have another chance.
Going back to the carousel I also thought that the carousel, it may just seem that there are a bunch of different people on it. So I think Holden kind of realized that even though the carousel, he knows have different people on it, you kind of have to allow the kids to grow up because you can't always keep them the same like the carousel, it's not a real machine or something. We all have to grow up eventually.
Just listening to you guys, what do you think about, when I was home in Los Angeles, my nephew at that time was about six months old. And at that point in time he was just crawling and putting everything in his mouth and stuff like that, like leaves. You'd show him an apple and he's like, "Ahh." And then he puts a leaf in his mouth. And you're just like, "Holy!" You have to dig it out kind of a thing. So in one respect, I mean, it's just like there's this idea of let people figure out things on their own, but in that respect, he'll die if you let him figure out oh, you can't eat that. So I'm just trying to think as far as a parent goes, how does a parent know when to let them figure it out versus how does a parent when to protect them? And I think that's part of the conflict Holden is having, he's trying to figure out how he can protect people and what he should protect them against.
Me and my grandpa talk to me and he was like, "I know that I have to let you go." And I think that they know when to let you go by how responsible you are. Like if you do what you're supposed to do and you show them that you're working or doing what you said then they want to let you go because they know that you (inaudible)
That's true, and I also think that it's not really based on yourself mostly. It's based on your parents and how they've grown and how with having kids you grow up as a parent and you know and it's just nature, you just know when they're ready. That's what I think. I don't think really it's just based on all of their mistakes. I just think it's pretty much based on (inaudible)
[Teacher] Interesting.
I think when people start changing and stuff, like their attitude, because I've noticed my little brother, he's starting to change and he has an attitude now. He's starting to get a little rebellious and stuff, and I think that's when parents have to start letting loose on their kids cause we have to experience things on our own, and it's not just being told what to do and stuff. You have to have that experience to learn from.
Every person has their own free will. Like the saying you can take a horse to the water but you can't make it drink. You can enforce your rules on your child as much as you want but you can't force them to do anything, you can just have an influence on them. And that's something that parents have to understand. You can't force your kids to do their homework, but you can ground them if they don't.
All right guys, I want you guys to keep going. You guys are doing a great job. I can see your notes are also looking pretty good. I'm gonna move on to another group, okay? But keep this going because I think you guys can come up with a lot more, okay? Thank you guys. You guys are doing an awesome job with your volume, we're gonna come over to  this group over here.
All right, can you fill me in on what you guys talked about making sure we have the volume up.
We have a couple of questions, we have like - (voices talking over each other)
Oh, okay. Let's just come up with, tell me about the one that you guys are the most excited about.
The first question is my question, which was what are the reasons why people live their lives through other people. And I kind of came up with that question because Holden, he kind of was denied of his childhood because Allie died and so that really impacted him. And since that he's kind of been trying to preserve the innocence of Phoebe. Like making her go back to the carousel even though she says she's too big for it. He's like, "No, you're not." He's trying to help to her keep that innocence, or just children in general keep that innocence that he was denied.
It kind of was a parent versus child kind of thing. It goes against like parent versus child. So a parent when they have a child, they kind of want to live their life through their child. And they make them do all these chores to get into (inaudible) because they never got to do it when they were little because they were deprived and their parents probably didn't want them to do it. So they kind of (inaudible).
[Teacher] Interesting.
I said that I just think this whole concept of the identity is not yet established, and you have the father and have somebody else create their footsteps (inaudible) I had these two other questions because I was reading the book where I was wondering why, I was trying to get more in depth with why Holden wanted his job to be catching children in the rye.
Okay, so I kind of answered it and I said it's very in tune because when you fall off the cliff you can't get back up. Just like when you lose your innocence, you can't get it back because this experience happened. If you get exposed to it, you can't magically forget it. It just stays with you and that's a part of you that's just lost.
[Teacher] Interesting.
That kind of relates back to the question about (inaudible) It seems like Holden is kind of holding onto his past, and so he's still living in that innocent stage, and when he's living an innocent stage he can't make a wrong decision, which is very hard from his now because he's 16, he keeps transferring to all these schools, and he can't really grow up because he still has that memory and so that's why he's confused about his identity.
[Teacher] Good point.
Going back to the first question about why people live their lives through other people, it kind of goes through influences too. Like he was talking about James Castle, and when he died he said that James liked to digress on a topic and have speeches and it kind of made him think about, oh yeah, that's a pretty great idea. It's not bad, but why would people be waiting for that? It was actually like a digression off topic makes you think of new ideas.
And I think going back to that question again, that sometimes parents want the best for their child, so they convince their, what they want their child to be. (inaudible) If that makes sense. And at the end, sometimes you can't force the child to do what they don't want to do.
So in a way it's kind of like you guys said, the parent versus the child. They wanna form their own identity as a teen, but at the same time the parents are so busy trying to protect them. Is that what we're kind of getting at through everything? They're so busy trying to protect them that they just gotta learn to let go. Is that what we're saying?
Yeah, kind of. Like Holden says he's trying to protect that innocence, because he's always referring to (inaudible) There's a part where he's walking down the sidewalk and he called Allie to help him cross to the other side. And that's kind of interesting because usually you don't think an adult would say that. A child would say that. And it's because he's mad at his parents because they won't talk about it, so he's kind of just living with this.
[Teacher] Interesting. So he's just trying to find a way of coping? Is that possible?
Yes. And then there was another kind of question about where Holden comes to (inaudible) Kiana said-
Why do people feel the need to forget the deaths and move on? And I thought of this question because when Holden was inside just his room, Phoebe was getting all frustrated with him because she was like, "You don't like anything! You don't like anything!" And he was trying to make up stuff that he did like. Like he did say he liked Allie, and she'll say he's dead so pick something else. And he was arguing with her saying that just because he's dead you don't forget him, and you can still like someone who's dead. And he thinks that Allie is thousand times better than, nicer than, people who are alive today, now. So that just proves how he's holding on to that and he's not planning on forgetting that, and he holds that near and dear to his heart. And so that's probably why he doesn't like a lot of people, because he compares them to how Allie was and his innocence, his maturity level, how it was then, and how he sees how people today, because kids don't understand he's holding on, so he doesn't really understand what's going on.
[Teacher] Anything else to add on to this?
No.
[Teacher] I like what you guys are doing. I like how you're tying in the death of Allie with the catcher in the rye type of a thing. What about the carousel, first of all?
I don't know, it sounds like it goes with the whole keeping the innocence going and all. 'Cause I know he would probably ride it too. Did he ride it?
I was thinking of repetition, because how the parents feel, it rotates around and round. And whenever Phoebe passed by, he would tell her how pretty she looked. She was never changing. That's kind of what he wanted, he wanted her to stay in that stage, and nothing to change.
[Teacher] Nice. All right, guys. I'm gonna check on another group. I want you guys to keep going with this, you guys are tearing it apart. Good job looking at the symbolism and tying everything together. All right, and your notes look good as well too. I like it. I think you guys could explore the carousel and tie that in a little more. Okay, hi guys! You guys, the volume is doing really well. (background chatter) So you guys fill me in.
Okay.
[Teacher] Tell me what you guys talked about.
Just mostly like (inaudible) and symbolism in the book.
[Teacher] Start getting louder.
