[Voiceover] How you guys doing?
So .3.
Oh, what did you do by touching those?
It made a short circuit.
It crossed.
Wow, the orange is a lot less than the kiwi and the apple.
Yeah.
It's only .3.
Why do you think that is?
.03.
Maybe because...
It's like different rods or something.
Oranges are more sour than the other fruit. Not, and like have more acid or something. Because it stops the energy.
We want it a half centimeter apart right?
Yeah. Two centimeters. Around.
So okay, go ahead. Make sure they aren't touching.
0.1.
It's not even measuring at all. Oh, 0.1. 0.01.
Oh .01.
That's crazy.
I know. How this supposed to be one, the other two were so high?
0.98.
I never thought fruits and vegetables could have so much energy. Except for oranges. I thought this would have as much as the apple.
My hypothesis, I actually thought that the orange would have the most.
Go ahead. Alright, Lizzy you can do the voltage reader. Stick them in a half centimeter apart. And a centimeter in. Okay, Lizzy make sure they don't touch.
Don't short circuit them.
It's like completely zero. (children talking over each other)
The bigger it is, the more volts it has.
The middle one, it left like a little here and this was the most.
I think it's more concentrating volts in the middle more than anywhere else.
Hmm, I wonder why that would be.
Okay, so now we have to get a calculator. Okay, so 0.22. Plus 0.09.
Plus 0.28.
I got 0.1966667.
So what are you gonna do with that number?
Round it up.
Okay. 0.20. But wait, doesn't someone else need to try it?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, that's a good idea. 0.22, plus--
0., oh never mind.
Divided by three. I got the same answer.
So what was the answer to the investigative question? What do you think?
The...
The apple, had the most.
Do you agree with that?
Yes.
Why do you think that is? Do you have any guesses?
It's...
It's bigger. It could carry more volts.
It has, yeah--
It has like more juice.
Yeah, that's true.
I think the juice.
Was your hypothesis correct?
Actually, it was. Like right here, well. Well, actually I said the potatoes will have the most voltage because like usually they, potatoes for like cloth and other things to energize with, but I guess apples would work better.
What was yours?
I thought the, I thought the carrots would produce more because you know, usually when you like eat one it's like very wet, wet when you just get them, so I thought the carrot was going to win, but guess not.
I thought it was the apple. I already said that.
My hypothesis, I thought, I think the potato would have the most because I heard like, I've heard that potatoes could produce a lot of energy, and last year when when they were doing a science experiment they said that they had potatoes for like volts. So I suspected that they may have been, have a lot of voltage also.
Okay.
To our investigative question, our question was which fruit will produce the most energy?
And the...
Kiwi.
Kiwi and apple had tied for it.
0.98.
So I don't know, maybe like some other time we should do another experiment and see if we get the same results.
I wonder why the orange was so low though.
Maybe because we, since we put it too deep or something.
No, we did the same thing, we put all of them.
Yeah, I know.
Well.
So then our, so our answer was that the kiwi and the apple both had the highest.
So how about your hypothesis?
I thought orange would have it. I thought orange would have it.
I thought orange had it too.
And had the highest.
Why?
Because it had like...
I thought the apple would because we didn't, I thought the apple was because of how much bigger it was.
How about you Kirsten what did you think?
I thought the orange because it has more citrus in it, I mean yeah.
I would have thought kiwi would have less because it's so small.
Yeah, me too.
That's what I thought.
Then what was our evidence?
Apple had for an average, had 0.98. Orange had 0.16. And then kiwi had 0.06. 0.16. And then kiwi had 0.98. So kiwi and apple tied.
And then our evidence is our data table because that's where we recorded everything.
Yep.
So then how can you be sure that you conducted a fair investigation?
We did them the same length apart and...
So what are you guys trying to figure out over here?
We're, we're trying to figure out what if the apple, carrot or potato has enough voltage to light the food battery.
What is the food representing in this case?
A battery.
Okay.
Yeah.
Okay, how you gonna figure that out? What is your plan?
We are gonna do, gonna try to do a voltage reader and put, try to see how much voltage there is in an apple, potato or a carrot.
I think we should use the apple because in our investigation it had the most voltage, well like the apple, but should we do a parallel battery or the something that starts with an S battery?
Series.
Series, let's do series.
Let's try series.
It lights up more.
Yeah, it's brighter.
Okay, let's get it done. Oh wait, we're gonna need more.
There's a wire in here.
So I think that the apple will like light up the battery brighter. Or at all because it has, I think it's gonna have the most, it has the most voltage and so it'll make it become brighter.
Which do you?
Oh wait, we're doing a series battery so...
Maybe we--
Where's the other apple?
It's over there, Reece has it.
Need to wrap it around tight.
Can I check?
Jayden, do you wanna do it?
Sure. I'll have the honors.
Keep this one untouched because I'm gonna wrap this wire against that because it needs to, this negative. Just the white one.
Okay, there is no wire in this.
Okay, so--
I think we have enough wires here.
What do you need the wires for?
To wrap around, to make a series.
To allow the energy to flow through.
Okay, so what's the purpose of the wires?
So that the energy will be able to flow.
What is the energy that's going through the wires?
Electricity.
But okay, so what is the function of the wires?
To like be able to pass from one spot to like, the battery to the light.
Okay, so you have two different wires. Why is that?
To be able to...
You know, why you have two different wires?
Um, no.
No. I'm gonna give you a minute to think about it.
Okay.
Is it working?
No, not yet. Well, I don't think it's working.
I think I didn't--
Oh, it's going.
No, I don't think I  wrapped the wire around right.
Oh, yeah, because the--
This is really short.
So yeah, it was tucking it.
Let's see that and that and that. Yeah, that thing's wrapped up tight.
Well, if the volts are enough.
Don't the apples have to be touching?
No, they don't have to be touching. They just have to be, the wires just have to go from positive to negative.
Yeah.
True.
But if they don't have enough voltage, we should use a potato.
Yeah, we can put the potato to help.
Yeah, we need to put them in every fruit. And then connect the wires like that to that, that to that.
So, make sure they don't touch.
Yeah, so kinda wrap it around with the wire. Yeah, try to wrap it around as tight as you can so that...
Do you, what do you guys think, do you think that fruit could power our school?
I don't think so.
It might power a small light bulb like the ones that we use in here, but--
You don't think there's enough voltage to supply our whole school?
No.
Well, like maybe if we put like a bunch of fruit on the roof or something. I don't know how that would turn out, but maybe if we put a whole bunch and like stacked it on top.
Would you think that would be economical? You think that would be beneficial to us in any way?
Maybe.
Why?
It could, but we'd have to keep changing out the fruit, and changing out the fruit.
It'd be lots more work that's for sure. Don't let them touch.
That connects to that and that.
Do we have another one? Because this one is broken.
Can we borrow one from over here?
Oh, we have one. There you go.
What do you think is gonna happen?
I think it'll like, because we have none of the same touching.
First we should check the voltage.
Well I don't, we'll just see if it lights the light.
No, don't connect those.
Why would you wanna check the voltage?
Just to see if it has enough potential of battery.
Would make more electricity. All the averages.
I think it should be good this way.
Because we tested a battery and saw how much it was.
Connect one to it. Then connect yours Lizzy.
Maybe, did we do it wrong?
No, I don't think so.
Well, I think that maybe it loses potential inside the fruit?
Maybe it--
Try an separate those a little more Kirsten.
Maybe they're both plus and plus.
Maybe it's because we're using three types of fruit. If we use just two. What if we took the prongs out and replace that with this?
Okay, try that.
Put it in a different hole this time because we just changed it.
Well, don't--
What are we trying to do here?
We were trying to make all these the same one.
Why would you do that?
Maybe because they need to be the same? From the, both positive and negative.
Oh.
And we need to make sure so those could be the plus and minus, doesn't matter which way. And that and that needs to touch, and then that one and that one, which is exactly what we did. But wait--
