This is a classroom where I push in for language arts. This is a morning meeting area, and this is also the area where any whole group instruction would take place. Over here is the area that the assistant sits and works with children and does phonemic awareness activities. Here is a word wall, and where the students keep their folders with their reading books in it, their book boxes. Here is where the classroom teacher does word study. This is the independent work station. And here is where I sit, and I'm responsible for the reading instruction. This is where the guided reading groups meet. This is a little reading area over here. Where the students can do some independent reading.
You know what Jane told me to do that I liked also? Looking at the word and chunking are good things to do. Jane said go back and reread and make sure it sounds right and makes sense. And that's something, Jesus, I want us to start practicing a little more. When we get to a word that tricks us, Put the book flat, Sarah, please We want to go back, and reread, and check and make sure it makes sense. Okay, here's something else I want us to do today with this book, Rascal. I want us to think about what happened in the story today. And we're going to do it this way. I want all eyes up here. We're gonna use this wipe board.
It's a big wipe board.
It is, and you have a little one. And you will probably get a chance to use it, too. But first, I'm gonna write on the big one. Okay. The first word up here, Jesus, I'm gonna ask you to help me read it. I'm gonna chunk it because you know the first part of this word
[Child} Some. Okay, Jesus is gonna help us. Okay, Jesus, go ahead and help me read this word.
[Jesus] Some.
Can you try...
[Jesus] body
Somebody, good job. You see how he broke that into chunks? Do you see that, Jane? Somebody. Let's think about the story. Hands down. I want you to think about the question before you put your hand up. Somebody. Somebody's in the story. Who is the somebody? Who is this story mostly about? Kelly's gonna help us. Kelly, who's this story mostly about? Put your hand down, Sarah.
[Kelly] I think is (inaudible) Josie's taking Rascal to the vet.
You're right. Josie's taking Rascal to the vet. So who are we talking about in the story? Are we talking mostly about Rascal, or are we talking mostly about the vet? Hands down, let her think. She'll ask for help if she needs it. Who do you think the story's mostly about?
[Kelly] Um, Rascal.
Rascal, I agree. Thumbs up if you agree. Thumbs up if you agree. Sarah, do you agree? I agree, do you agree? You do, I see a thumbs up. Okay? So what did you want to say about the title of the story?
[Child] Maybe the story was mostly about Rascal because the title.
Jackie, did you hear what Sarah said? She said, that's some good thinking, Sarah. She said she also knew it was mostly about Rascal because the title was in it. I knew it was mostly about Rascal because I read the story and they talked about Rascal a lot in the story. Rascal. Rascal Okay. Rascal's in the story. Alright. Rascal, now, there's a problem. At the very beginning of the story, and I'm gonna go back in the book and look and see what it is. Sarah, what's a problem in the very beginning of the story?
[Sarah] I read the words and it said he didn't want to go in the door to see the vet.
He didn't want to go to the vet. Why do you think he didn't want to go to the vet, Jackie? How come? Why do you think Rascal didn't want to go to the doctor? Let's listen to what Jackie says.
[Jackie] 'Cause he's scared.
He's scared. How did you know that he's scared, Jackie? I agree. How did you know that? (inaudible)
Because the picture shows he's looking like he's upset or sad. And I like how Sarah said she read in the story, Eddie, she read that he didn't want to go to the vet. Turn the page. I see other things happening. I'm gonna ask you about that in a minute. Okay, so somebody is Rascal. And Rascal, the problem is, he didn't want to go, Rascal didn't want you know what, Kelly, come up here and help me write. 'Cause you can write the rest of what I'm gonna write. Come up here. Didn't, Oh, I'm gonna do the want part. Didn't want. Rereading helps me think about what I want to write. Rascal didn't want what? To go. Can you write to go? Don't forget to space. Rascal didn't want to go to, let's have a bigger space. Rascal didn't want to go to the I like how you're all looking to see. You're good, that's fine. Just keep going. Good, thank you. Rascal didn't want to go to the Who wants to try vet? Sarah you want to try? That's a word we haven't written before. But I know that she can think about the sounds in it, and I bet you she can do it. Good job. Thank you, Sarah. Okay. Rascal didn't want to go to the vet. But, but what? Eddie, but what? He didn't want to go?
[Eddie] But He went and he was scaring the animals. Oh my goodness. Rascal didn't want to go to the vet, but he went anyway and scared the animals. Hold on a minute, Jane, 'cause I know you're gonna help me. But he went anyway. Hold on one second, then you can tell me. and scared, should we say, I'm thinking about how this should sound, I'm thinking about what happened in the story. but he went anyway and scared the other animals, or other animals, or the animals? He did scare cats, who else did he scare?
[Child] the mouse.
Can I have a quiet hand for someone else? He scared the cat, the mouse. Jackie, who else did he We can always, let Jackie help. Let Jackie help, let's look. Jackie, let's go back and look. And you're looking at the pictures. Jackie's gonna help us. Jackie, I see the cat that Jane said. What other animal do you see in the picture that he scared?
the parrot and the rabbit. Oh, okay, the parrot and the rabbit. Okay, he went anyway and scared a rabbit, I'm gonna put this mark here 'cause I have a couple things I'm saying. a cat and I don't have room here, so I need to erase this word, so I have room to keep writing. He went anyway and scared a rabbit, a cat, and what's the last thing I need to say, Kelly? And, a what?
[Child] Parrot.
Parrot.
[Kelly] And I wanted to say
Okay, what did you want to say?
[Kelly] I want to say that I really know about these, I know their names, they call commas.
You're right., thank you. Kelly helped me because I didn't say what these were called. She reminded us that those are called commas. Thank you, Kelly. Okay, one moment, Jane. I want us to think about the story, and I want us to think about what's happening. Rascal didn't want to go to the vet, but he went anyway and scared a rabbit, a cat, and a parrot. So we have a big problem.
[Child] we need to find a solution.
We need to find a solution. What is our solution to the problem? Sarah? Can you sit on your bottom so you don't fall and hurt yourself?
[Child] my solution is that at the end of the story, right here, he goes in to the vet, so he doesn't scare the other animals.
[Teacher] Okay, I like how all of you went back to check the solution, and you went back in the story to help you understand what happened. Jane, I like what Sarah said, and I'm thinking about how I can write that. Sarah was looking at this page, and she saw how he went into the vet, and now he won't scare the other animals. Okay.
[Jane] Can I read this page? Yes, and in fact, Jane wants to read it, and she's gonna, I want all of us to read it with our eyes, because I want us to listen to how that sounds with those dark parts the author said. Go ahead, Jane, are you ready? (inaudible) I love how that sounded, and I saw you were practicing that, too, Kelly. Let's all practice that to ourselves. The big dog growled, grrrrr. Rascal ran. Jesus, how did she know, How did Jane know to say Rascal ran? How did she know to read it like that?
[Jesus] The author wrote it in dark and big.
He wrote it in dark and big, he sure did. And he said something else, Eddie, that I want you to look at. He wrote it dark and big, and what else did he put there at the end? Remember what that mark's called? It's a big, fancy long word. That's okay, Sarah's gonna help us. This mark, right here, Eddie, is what we're talking about.
[Eddie] Comma?
Nope, but it looks
[Eddie] Somebody that's talking.
Yes, and when they're loud, go ahead, Sarah.
An exclamation mark.
Yeah. That word is a very long word and it's new to us Eddie, so we're learning it. Do you wanna try and say it after me? Exclamation mark, yeah. That shows they're excited
You mean this?
Yeah.
Oh, I though you were this.
Oh, well, no wonder, I was tricking you by accident, I'm so sorry, Eddie. Yes, I was talking about the exclamation mark. Okay, Rascal didn't want to go to the vet, but he went anyway and scared a rabbit, a cat, and a parrot. And so the end of the story should say, that, it's a solution, Sarah was
He ran into the vet.
What made him? Why did he run?
Because he was scared.
Of what?
the dog.
Jesus, did you hear what Sarah said? So let's think about that. But, but he saw a what?
[Jesus] Big dog.
Come over here and help me write. Me and Jesus are gonna write this together. Come on over here, Jesus. Lemme move this out of your way, I'm sorry. Okay, go over here. And turn around so everyone can read, come over by me. But he, you can write the word, he. Go ahead. Write it under here. Thank you. Now I'm gonna help you, give me the marker? Jackie, I need you to look over here, so you can help us if we need it. Go stand over here for a second. But he, oops, he saw, you go ahead a a what? He saw a what? Jackie, he saw a what?
[Jackie] A big dog.
A big dog. And those are words you know, go ahead. Now come down here so we don't go too far up. Dog. Oops, something's tricking you. Go ahead and turn that around. Thank you, go ahead, give me the marker back. Thank you. Hold on. But he saw a big dog and, what happened? What happened, Sarah?
[Sarah] He
[Teacher] Yeah?
[Sarah] ran.
[Teacher] And he ran. Okay, come over and help me write that then, please. Come on over, over here. And he ran. Good. Go ahead and sit down. and he ran, where?
[Sarah] Into the vet. Okay, I'm gonna just finish this. And he ran in Into is easy because you know both of those parts. And he ran into the into the vet? Or into the vet's? What's that place? Let's put that, office or room. Let's put room. But both of those are good choices.
