Three, two, one, stop. Okay, were there pairs of you who chose different things?
Um hmm.
And who wants to share?
I said if I had to pick, I would pick the green cylinder because the white would overflow easy, the pink you would have to reach down far to get it.
Okay, Devon?
I would pick the pink one, because it's like thin enough to be like a cup, and you can do this with it. And it would be a lot easier than just like doing this, especially because if it gets on the bottom of the green one, it would be hard to get it, and the white one, it might spill if you walk around with it. Or you could trip.
Okay, good. Layla?
But, well, I agreed with Devon on the pink one, but I would rather have the white one because it could carry more popcorn, but it also is harder to hold, unless you were to like, since it has more area, the white one has more area than the pink or the green one.
More area you're talking this way?
Yeah.
Okay, so you're saying...
You take the popcorn and you could like, you could make it even on the bottom of it, so it wouldn't necessarily be overflowing unless you were, when you walk, for the popcorn thing.
Okay, all right. Brittany?
Me and Lani had the same answer, we would think that, it sort of relates to what Devon said, if we picked the green one, because, and related to [inaudible]. The pink one's gonna be hard to reach down to get the rest of the popcorn. And the green one is wide enough, and it can hold, it can still hold as much popcorn as the pink one. But it's still gonna be hard to get down the pink one, and the white one's just gonna spill.
Okay, all right.  Tiffany.
We thought that the green and pink one, it doesn't matter because they're probably gonna hold the same capacity since they're the same shape, it's just one's taller and one's shorter, but the short one's wider and the tall one's skinnier, it's tall but we thought that both of them can hold the same.
So you said either one of these two? It didn't matter, okay. Kylie?
I would want the green cup because it's easier like to get your hand down it. The pink one looks like really skinny, so if you have big hands, it would be hard to get your hand down it.
Okay, all right, Amani?
I think the green one becuase when you look at it, the old popcorn container, and the green one, they're kinda the same, although the green one is a little bit bigger, so then you could get more.
Okay.
I said the green one also because the pink one is skinny, and it if went to the same size as that, with the same amount of popcorn, it would be less popcorn in the pink one than the green one. Do you know what I'm saying?
Say that again.
Okay, I picked the green one because, say you fill them with popcorn, and then you take all the popcorn that was in the pink one, and you put it in the green one, it's gonna be less popcorn in the green one than the pink one. And the white one, it's just gonna fall over 'cause it's too small, it's too flat.
Okay, hold on Josh. Now, Tiffany said that she felt they held the same amount. Did you say that?
Mm-hmm.
And why did you say that?
Because they're the same size paper, except one, they're just folded different.
Okay, she said that because they're the same size paper, they're folded differently, but she thinks that they're gonna hold the same amount. And you are disagreeing.
Mm-hmm.
Okay, she's disagreeing, saying that the green one's going to hold more, is that correct? What you said?
I said, yeah, the green one would hold more.
Okay, Josh what do you think?
I said I would rather have the green because it would be a lot easier to get the popcorn out, and because it might have more volume than those two. Yeah.
Okay, so let's change our thinking here. Some of you did think about which one is going to hold more. It didn't matter whether your hand could get easier into this one, or Devon liked this one 'cause he could tilt it up, he didn't even have to have his hand in it at all, which is an interesting way to look at it. A lot of you said you didn't like this one because it would spill easily or whatnot. Yes ma'am?
But unless you did what I suggested, and you like evened it out on the bottom.
Yes, because you said you liked this one, 'cause you thought it held more than the other two.
But you'd have to like flat, not necessarily like, squish the popcorn so it's flat, you'd have to like shake things sideways, so that it would even it out. Like food in a pan, you would shake it to even it out on the bottom.
Okay, all right.
Well it's kinda like with the little kid packs, there are things shaped like that, and it has like, gummies and popcorn in it, and I don't like it 'cause like, everyone would get the other ones, it would have like more popcorn in it.
Okay, Tiffany?
What I would suggest the white one is like, even it's the same shape as the other two pieces of paper, but it's folded so it's taking less up space, but it's folded.
Because it overlaps here, it does overlap here, with the white, you're right there.
But I disagree with Molly because the popcorn amount that's inside of the, inside the square ones at Newtown, is the same amount as one of the plastic ones. The exact same amount of popcorn, 'cause they actually use those as measuring cups. I've watched them do it. And I've watched them actually use those cups, those hard ones, to fill the other cup, to fill the other ones.
So you think that this is going to hold the same amount as this?
All of them are gonna hold the same amount because they used the hard plastic ones, as measuring cups.
All right, Devon.
I agree with Layla, like they're all the same. I think it just depends on like who you are, kind of, like which one you want.
Okay, but do you think it would be unfair to say a certain gender would have to have each one?
Yeah.
So if you could choose, that would be a good thing. Right, hold on a second, let's move on a second, and I'm gonna have MK come up here and help me. We're gonna see if they hold the same, okay? I want you, however, on your paper, to write down, you know, which one you think holds the most, do they hold the same, or if you think they hold a different amount, put 'em in order, like which one is least, middle greatest, why don't you do that real quick. Why don't you put 'em in order, which one do you think? Okay, this is what she thinks, she thinks least, middle greatest. Here's what we're going to do. I do not have popcorn, but I do have cereal. And hopefully, hopefully, MK can pour this. Hopefully, okay, so you're, I'm gonna hold it. Or would you rather hold it and me pour?
Wait, yeah, you might wanna pour it.
Okay, and just make sure that the bottom stays. Okay. We are smellin' the sugar up here!
Yeah.
Okay, can you all see that it's at the top?
Yeah. All right. Now, what we are going to do, so this is, this would be a full thing of popcorn for the girls. We're gonna put this over top, and you're gonna lift it up and see what happens. And some of you have predicted that it's going to be the same, right? How many have predicted that they're all the same? All the same? Okay. How many are predicting that the green is bigger? Predicting that the green is bigger? Okay.  What about the white is biggest? Anybody predict the white is biggest? Okay, why don't you lift this up, I'll hold this this time. You gotta make sure that.
Pink's bigger.
Ooh!
Can you see? Can you see? So there's more room, right? There's more room in the green one. Why?
Because the more space it has, the bigger around it is, the more cereal that could fit in it.
So what is that called, around here?
Circumference?
Well this is circumference, but at the bottom.
Volume?
It is volume, 'cause we're measuring volume. But what is at the bottom of this.
Base?
A base, is that what you're saying? That the base, it depends on how big the base is? Well let's look to see whether it'll fit in here. Okay.
There it is. Exact same room as the pink.
Well, do you think there's the exact same room as the pink?
No.
I think the white has more.
You think the white could fit more?
Yeah. Okay, thank you MK, have a seat. But what do we know about this one now?
It's the smallest.
It's the smallest.
Do you think we could come up with a formula to figure out what the numbers are here, and figure out what the formula, or the volume is?
Like the length of it, the length of the pink one?
Does anybody know what a standard size sheet of paper measures?
Eight by
Is it eight by 12?
Eight by 12, eight by six?
Eight by 10?
Eight by 10? Eight by 10?
A foot?
A foot?
Eight by 11.
Okay, it is actually eight and a half by 11, okay? Eight and a half, by 11. So our standard size paper is eight and a half by 11. Okay? So for our pink one. What is, when we do this. What is this?
The circumference?
Its' the circumference. What do we know about the circumference then, for the pink one?
That it's 8.5.
It is 8.5. So circumference equals what?
8.5.
The circumference equals 8.5. Are we then able to find out the diameter and the radius if we have the circumference?
Yes.
No.
You say yes?
Yeah, I know what you could do, you could divide it by 3.14 'cause that's how you get, 'cause you know how it's the opposite of times, so that you would do it, and you would divide that by 8.4, no, 3.14, and then you'll have the diameter, and then you can just take half of that, and that'd be the radius.
Okay, all right, tell me Brittany, what is the formula for circumference?
Pi times d?
Circumference equals pi times d. I'm gonna ask someone to restate what Kiki said. Does anyone agree with Kiki?
Yes, I do.
And what did she say?
She said that you can divide the circumference by 3.14.
Okay.  So we know the circumference is 8.5, correct? And we know that pi is what, Molly?
3.14.
3.14, and we're trying to find the, the what, Devon?
Diameter?
The diameter, okay? So both Kiki and Maya say you divide by 3.14. Is that what we do? Treyshawn?
Yes.
So if I divide this side by 3.14, and I divide this side by 3.14, what happens to this right here, India?
It would get smaller.
It gets smaller.
Yes, if you divide it.
Okay, what is 3.14 divided by 3.14?
One.
Sure. [laughter]
