I'm not too sure if I like this screen print with the acrylic on top of it. I'm not too sure about that.
It makes it less [inaudible].
It's different, in an awkward way. I don't know how to explain it. It doesn't have any depth to it. It has no dimension. Like, she's standing there, he has to take the paint and try to add dimension to it and then. . .
It looks like she's laying down.
Actually, yeah it does. I mean, he has to take the paint and try and add dimension to it, and then add the cool and warm colors to make it pop. And I'm just not feeling it. I like the Mick Jagger one, but I'm not feeling this Taylor Swift one. [cross talk]
See, I like pop art. I just, I don't know.
Did you notice that?
What?
I thought it was a green that goes in to, this. That's on them, it's more like a quiet, like she's sleeping softness. But I didn't notice it that it goes into purple, periwinkle, and this dark violet color that comes out of this red on the bottom half side. Did you see that? Then it goes in to two, and he breaks off the colors And it's like [inaudible].
All right, let's take a couple of minutes and try to just wrap up some of our questions. And then we'll talk about a whole group discussion, and see what we all have and what we want to write. [background chatter]
In a sense, it would be a good picture for the stance that she's in. You know, the title of the album is called "Fearless," and we decided that it is a powerful stance she does look kinda fearless. In the way she's standing. The way he did it, it just doesn't look like her.
[inaudible]
It's like the wind's coming back and it pushes her hair. . .
Yeah, but you would think that she would want to be looking directly at the camera.
But then her hair wouldn't have been like that.
Yeah, but they just need some big ole fans, it's Hollywood. You can get some big ole fans to blow your hair back. You would wanna be looking at the camera if you want to be looking fearless. [cross talk]
You have to think. . .
It's more of country music. I mean, I could see if you were saying like, hip-hop, pop. And you get like all forceful, "What's Up, I'm here."
But they're saying, you know, she's a pop icon. If she's a country artist, then why are they putting her on pop billboards and pop charts?
Because she's mainstreaming into the different areas, she's creating kind of a new version of country for the younger generations like you guys. You wouldn't compare her to Kenny Chesney. Those who want newer generation of country.
Right.
All right, let's just try and get to our last question and then we'll talk about whole group and get you back in here. Let's go ahead and start, you guys can chime in when you guys have an answer, if you want your input put in. So let's just talk about the describe section. What we really need to talk about is describing the scene in your own words. What kind of words would you use to describe this piece? Let's start with Mick Jagger.
Bold.
Bold.
Proud.
Proud.
Electric.
Electric. Okay, those are good ones. What about Taylor Swift?
It's more feminine. More soft
It's pale, it's delicate and [inaudible].
Delicate.
Soft.
You said soft.
It's like he's almost scared when he's doing Taylor Swift, compared to Mick Jagger. Because Mick Jagger is all rough and boxes everywhere.
I think he almost makes Taylor look almost intimidated. She's kind of pushing away--
The position.
. . .and you have all these colors around her. With the selection and. . .
Innocence. Yeah, I think we talked about that with Taylor a little bit. You kind of have to look at the personality of each artist as well.
Plus really you have to listen to her lyrics then it, like, paints a picture.
She has an innocent expression.
I'd say innocent, yeah. Okay.
Fierce.
You say fierce? Okay.
It's like her personality, she just breaks it out with this bold pose.
All right good. So those are some good words, key words to describe it. So, analyzing. Let's figure out and pinpoint specific elements and principles of design that we see in the piece that we want to discuss.
Colors.
Colors? Color's a big one. In both of them actually.
Paint strips?
The paint strips, it looks like it's a lot of paint. It kind of creates a lot of movement, with the way that it's flowing through the pieces. All right, so our big ones are color. . .
He said in the video color is everything.
And that's his main focus is color.
The different colors make the value in the picture, the dark colors make the darker shades, and light colors.
He uses more bold colors in Mick Jagger than he did in Taylor. And like the contrasting colors of Mick Jagger are more loud.
I'd definitely say it's louder. Okay, good. Let's discuss the movement a little bit. So if you look at it, I see a lot of movement personally in the touch with the hair. I like how the hair is like that and I like her position from the side, because I think it adds interest. Like I was saying a second ago, if she was looking straight forward, I don't think the hair would have the same effect as it does from the side. And that's just my personal opinion, but I like how the hair is kind of flowing through and it's creating the movement through the piece. And then with the Mick Jagger one, the movement in this piece right here is really interesting to me. How he chose the green and the red to contrast each other. I think that's big bold move in this area. Good. Now what are our focal points?
Faces.
Faces? And what are the big things that factor in for that? Why is that? What did he do?
The colors around her make her pop.
The colors surrounding. If you look, the face is white right here, and then her skin tone is pale as well. So that kind of pops out against the bold colors. What do you guys think about the materials? The silk screen and the acrylic paint? You guys got to see a little bit of him working in the video, where he gets those huge rows of the acrylic paints from the jars, and just dipped in a couple different ones. And just started coloring. So what do you guys think about his process, and the materials he uses?
He doesn't really choose what direction, he just kind of goes with the flow.
It's very free, if you watch him.
[inaudible].
Mindless. Mindless creativity. He does what comes to him, which is interesting. Any other comments about the actual process or materials?
I think It would have been more amazing if he didn't use the silk screens.
So you'd rather him just paint it than add the silk screen?
I think it would be more like a wow factor.
And some of his pieces are just paintings. More of the people though, like the Rollins he painted. . . And the ones he did for President Obama. President Reagan, some of the Statue of Liberty. And also some of the other people like Aerosmith, and the Beatles as well. And he's usually famous for painting his faces. And he would go into the color.
