Does everyone agree on the first question?
Yeah.
What did you all agree on?
That it wasn't really fair for--
For First and Second Class to go through without any problems, and the people from the Steerage had to go through examinations, and this whole, long hassle.
And why was that? Why did people who were First and Second Class just get to come right on in and not have to go through examinations?
Cause of the money.
What about the money?
Because they thought that they had-- they were perfect. They had no disease. They had lots of money, and thought they would work hard.
So the stereotype is, what?
That rich people are more-- can work harder, or have less chance of disease than the people in Steerage.
Do you think that that stereotype is still true today? Or do you think it's not true anymore? It was just for First and Second Class passengers for Steerage passengers before emigrating?
Well, it's kind of like this. It's not over-the-top, but it's just a little bit.
What do you guys think about what Eric said?
I agree with him.
Why?
It's not fair because First and Second Class usually are kings or royalty, and so if you're in Steerage, you're just a normal person. If you're in Steerage, it's not going to be fair. You have to go walk through that and--
Well, First and Second Class Passengers they weren't necessarily royalty, they were just people who had a lot of money. People who had enough money to buy those tickets which they were really expensive. What do you guys think about what Eric said? That the stereotype today is still here, but not really? Just kind of back-and-forth?
It's back-and-forth. They don't do the same thing anymore.
Who's "they"? And what's the "same thing"?
The American Embassy. The people that take care of the immigrants and everything, and all about them. They don't go to Ellis Island anymore.
They don't go to Ellis Island anymore.
You have to go on a plane, or you have to drive here.
But do you think the stereotype, in general, that rich people are better or they don't have diseases, and they're just better than people who don't have a lot of money? Do you think we still have those stereotypes today? 
Sometimes.
Sometimes? Have you seen it ever?
No.
No, but you just think it's still there?
I haven't really seen it at all.
Yeah, I agree with .
Okay. You can start the next one. Hold on. Josh, did you have something else to add?
Yeah. On TV shows, sometimes they have rich people in huge carriages with horses sometimes.
And they're usually pretty snotty.
And how do you know they're snotty?
They're always like, "Don't touch that! "It's going to fall and you're going to pay for that!"
Oh, okay. So you do see in TV sometimes?
Yeah.
All right.
Do you think immigrants were treated fairly at Ellis Island? Why or why not?
I don't think they were treated very fairly, because they had to go through .
I agree with Jacob because sometimes people just sent them back at Ellis Island, but some doctors at least tried to keep us here to help us be better until we got to stay in America.
Yeah, and that was good that the doctors are supposed to check them and see if they were okay.
Some of the doctors, two people could have the same diseases, but both the doctors-- one doctor could send one person home, and one person could stay at Ellis Island which is unfair.
Possibly because of their religion or the way-- their language?
I think they were mostly--
I think they were mostly, yeah.
So they were mostly treated well, but sometimes not?
Sometimes not.
Yeah.
The doctors or the inspectors might think that one person can stay because of their religion or their language and others might have to be sent back.
And remember the book that we read? It kind of said that-- the cousin, he had to be sent back to-- well, he almost had to be sent back to his country because--
To Russia.
Yeah, to Russia, because he had a scratch and they thought it was infected. His father was trying to tell him, but they didn't listen.
Yeah. He didn't.
 I think they should have translators with all of them, so then it would make it fair.
That spoke English, and that language.
That language. So they can understand things.
So I would say, mostly.
Yeah. Mostly.
So should we check them both off?
I think we should check off the first one.
 If they were sick or something, or if they needed food, they had places where they could get food. Or if they were sick and had to go to the hospital, like Sophia said. So I'm in the middle. Kind of. Because sometimes, they were treated badly.
I agree with Josh because if they were sick, they would probably be treated less fairly because they were sick and had their diseases. Like, "Oh! Get away from me, because you're going to spread that disease to everybody. It's going to be an epidemic."
I want to add, if they were sick, they could have been contagious, and there were a lot of people at Ellis Island so they might have--
Usually if they were at a hospital, they were curing curable diseases, because if they couldn't cure it-- they didn't have a medicine or anything to cure that, they got sent back.
Yeah, I agree with Eric and Sophia...
Go ahead. Were you going to say something?
I was going to say, if we all agree on this...
So your general feeling here is: were they treated fairly at Ellis Island?
They weren't treated not very fairly. Like they were treated half the fair that they should have been, but they weren't treated really good.
They were fed very well, and all their needs were there, but they weren't treated very good like if you were on an airplane in First Class.
It's kind of like--
I would like to add, they were treated way better in Ellis Island because on the ship, in Steerage, they didn't have good food. They couldn't really bathe, and it was all crowded. They didn't really have a good place to sleep, but in Ellis Island, they actually had okay food. They weren't treated like .
Do you think that it was fair that they each had to have $20 on them in order to stay?
Yeah.
Sort of. Sort of.
What I think is they need to take care of themselves and America is actually bringing lots of them over here. America just could say, "Stop. No more immigrants, at all," but they've been letting people in. A lot of people in, and they've been very generous by giving them food, and letting them live here in this wonderful country. So they've provided enough.
I have something-- I have two things to say. I agree with Sophia because-- I sort of agree with Sophia because if they didn't have $20, they wouldn't have much to live, and the government is not really responsible for the immigrants. They're responsible for themselves. They're on their own, and I would like to say is that, going back to Sophia's . It said that-- then they were fed well, and that they were...
All wanted to get to America, and even if some of them had money, how do you know that they didn't have a disease or something? How do you know if they didn't have lice or something?
I kind of agree with you, because if they paid more, I think they shouldn't get a lot, a lot more, but I think they should get a little bit more, but they still should go to Ellis Island.
Yeah.
Sometimes they did have doctors who came on the ships, and kind of gave the medical exams to First and Second Class Passengers to make sure they didn't have any diseases. And then if their medical exams checked out fine, then they could skip everything else. So they didn't have to get asked all those questions, and they didn't have to wait in all those long lines, and things like that. So what do you think about that?
I think it's still unfair that they didn't have to wait in long lines just because they were already examined on the boat.
I think instead of Ellis Island, they should have checked them before they got on the boat, for everyone.
Yeah. I agree with you.
I think they got all seasick. Think that's where they all got sick?
Yeah.
Like in the Steerage. Some of them got sick because they were in Steerage, and then when they got to Ellis Island, they had to get sent back.
The reason why some of them got sick, was because they didn't have fresh air, and so they couldn't breathe that well.
Stuffy in Steerage.
I think all doctors should have been actually fair instead of sending some immigrants back just because they don't like them, for their religion and stuff.
Could doctors send people back because they didn't like their religion? Doctors could send people back, why? Doctors couldn't send people back, but they would mark letters on your back. Why could they mark letters on your back?
Because they probably thought-- they probably saw something different when it was actually a scratch.
So, just if you were hurt, and then they had to go through further medical exams to see, but doctors couldn't just say, "I don't like you! You have to go back!" They were just examining you to make sure you didn't have a contagious disease that could get other people sick.
When we were reading, they said something about the doctors-- where they didn't have any diseases or anything, but they'd still send them back.
And you read that in the book?
We were reading one of the things.
Oh, and why would they send them back? Why would they get sent back, by the legal inspectors and other people?
Sometimes, it was like there were random reasons they sent them.
Just because?
Yeah.
That's not fair? That's what you're saying?
Yeah.
I'd also change the part where they had to-- why did they have to mark stuff on their own clothes?
Yeah.
I mean they should have given a sheet or something.
Or something. Because, what if that's the only thing they had? You know?
I think they should mark on their skin, or something so then you could just wash it off.
Like a marker or something?
No, I don't think they should do it on the skin, because then if there was a water fountain, they could just wash it off and say, "I'm in this line." Right?
True.
 They could. They could do that. We all agree they should do something other than your own clothes.
They should give you a sheet of paper and--
You could rip it apart. 
I think that they way they did it, for example, that guy in the book did his jacket inside-out. They should have been kind of more smart about what they gave them. Because someone could just say, "Take this jacket inside-out," and then go into the other line.
Or he could just put his jacket on tomorrow.
Yeah. "Oh, I don't have a jacket."
Yeah.
Yeah.
If we didn't have Ellis Island, not as many immigrants would be here, probably, because it'd be a lot harder. And Ellis Island, they fed you food. It was good. I like it.
I agree with Josh because they gave you food and water, a place to sleep. They built stuff and made kinder-cares, and made stuff with the little kids and stuff for the grown-ups. The people that were there at Ellis Island didn't even have to pay for any of that. That was all for free. I mean, imagine that happening to us right now? That will never happen.
I definitely agree with Sophia because if you just come to Ellis Island, and they just give you potato soup every meal, it's kind of like they don't get a good impression of America. I think they try to give a good impression for the immigrants on America, from giving them good food, and a good way to start their time in America. and then they realize how complicated it is.
Yeah.
According to everyone, I kind of agree. It was good, I think.
