Okay guys, yesterday we talked about three key vocabulary words that we mentioned, we studied, we found definitions for. Those words were adaptation, there's habitat and community. Okay, adaptation is the first word. Who can tell me something about adaptation? Karina.
Adaptation is how animals act, like the howler monkeys, they howl so they can tell other monkeys that they are in danger, so they can survive
Okay, so they can survive, right? Adaptation helps them survive. And then, habitat. Who can tell me what habitat is? Ernesto.
Where you live.
Okay it's the environment where they live. It's the surroundings, okay? It's the trees, it's the plants, it's the ground, and it's the climate that they live in. And, the last one is community. Okay, so, if we're thinking about animals, what makes up a community for these animals? Who can tell me? Sergio.
The community
What makes up a community? It's not the environment
The animals?
It's all the animals. Do we have just one animal in the community? 
We have many, we have many. It could be very many. Okay, we're going to on, and I'd like you to listen to this sound. Shhhh. Just listen to this sound.  Okay, you may have, and you can hear this sound at night. Okay, what I'd like you yo do right now is tell me one thing that you know about this animal, okay. If you know the name of this animal, go ahead and write that down too. First of all. let's just write it in our "K". Just put it under for "K". What do you know about that animal? Just write it down first, then we'll talk about it. I'd like you to discuss what you know also. Talk to a neighbor. Okay, this is what you know, so you are going to be looking at that. What is something you know about that animal? Okay? Tell your neighbor "What do you know about this animal?" Just tell a neighbor. 
Tell a neighbor what you know. 
Tell your neighbor, Eddie, what you know. What do you know? You can talk out loud, guys.  Okay, small ears, okay. All right, so write that down. Okay, now after that go to what you want to know. Go to the "W". What do you want to know about this animal? By the way, what animal is this?
An owl.
It's an owl. It's a Great Horned Owl, okay. Now, what I'd like you to do, you want to put this information. Yea, what do you want to know. So, write one thing about what you want to know. What do you want to know? Tell a neighbor, "What do you want to know?" Sergio.  You don't have to whisper, you can say it.  How old an owl can live? Okay, good. Good, okay. Now, one thing I want you to think about. Let's listen to this sound again, okay? Listen to the sound again.  Any predictions, and you can just tell me, without writing them down. What do you think that-- Why does the owl make the sound that it makes? Yea
Maybe to warn other owls.
Warn other owls? Anything else? Yea, Ernesto.
To communicate.
And to communicate, that's right. Okay, let's take a look a page twenty-three. Okay, we're going to look at text structure on page 23. This is the Great Horned Owl. And, I'd like everyone to put your finger on the title for this animal, the Great Horned Owl. Just put your finger so I know you know what the title is. Next, I'd like you to put your finger on the caption. Okay, and can I have one person read the caption? Let's have Karina read the caption.
Owls have large eyes to help them see in the dark.
Okay, very good. Then we have, underneath the title of the Great Horned Owl, We have what I call bullet points. We talked a little bit about them. And, put your fingers on the bullet points there. And, let's have Ernesto read those bullet points.
Bird found in North, Central, and South America. Live in the canopy and understory.
Understory, very good. And we live in what continent? Eddie, what continent do we live in?
North America.
North America. So, we'll find these, and actually I will usually hear these at night. And usually hear them kind of in the winter time. All right, let's have the first paragraph. Eddie, why don't you continue?
The Great Horned Owl has no ears, but can hear anyway. It can also see very good, even on the darkest night.
Okay, and the second paragraph, Makayla.
An owl hunts for food at night from high in the air. When it hears a mouse move or squeak, the owl swoops down upon it.
Swoops, okay very good. Okay, now we've read about the Great Horned Owl. I'd like you to tell your neighbor, one thing that you learned new about this owl, that you are going to put down under the "L". What is one thing that you learned about the owl?  Okay, so write something down that you've talked about with your partner or your neighbor. Now we're going to continue working in partners here and I'm going to give you something to take a look at. And I'm going to have you guys, just close your books for a second. After you're done writing, close your books. Okay, I'm going to give each pair or each little group one of these sticks. I want you to look at the stick carfeully and look how an animal might have changed or interacted with the stick, okay? So take a close look at it, all right? And, take a look at it, and then I'd like you to put down what you know about that stick, okay? There are, yes you can see that some insects have interacted with the stick also. But what is something, look at the ends of the stick, and let's put down something we know about what an animal might have done to this stick. Okay, just write it down or tell your neighbor. Tell your neighbor.  Yeah, he bit the stick on here. But did he actually cut it? Was he able to bite it?
Yes Yeah he was, he was. Okay, all right, now who can tell me what animal this might be? Karina.
A beaver.
It is a beaver and you will find these in this area. What I would like you to put down next is what you want to know about the beaver. So, let's write that down. Just skip this and go right to "What do you want to know?" Tell your neighbor. Go ahead and tell your neighbor about it. What do you want to know?  Okay, tell your neighbor, guys, too once you have written it down. 
How old can a beaver live?
Okay, how old can a beaver live? That's good. Yea, Keelie.
What I want to know how about are they electric.
Okay.  Okay, I want to know how long they are in their house, maybe. Yes.
I want to know how big can they be.
Okay good
I have hair on here.
It's possible. Actually, yeah that is very possible, you have hair of a beaver I would actually, I'm going to hang onto that. And actually let's put that in the garbage. But, that's good.
It's right here. 
Okay i'll take it. Okay. Yea, you're going to find that probably, we're not going to look at the sticks too much. We need to find insects still living in the stick, but we're going to leave that for right now. I'd like you to take a look at page twenty. Take a look at page twenty. I do recommend that if you ever by chance go to Deerbro, there's a forest near the school here. Your parents can take you. You might actually see a beaver house. Okay, let's find out some more information about beaver on page twenty. Put your fingers on the title. Put your fingers on the title. You know what, I'll take that. Here we go. And you know what, let me recollect these, because we have. Let me collect those back. Thank you. There we go. Okay, put your fingers on the beaver, the title, okay? Can I have one person read the bullet again? Bullet marks. Sergio, go ahead.
Mammal found in North America, Europe, and Asia Lives in rivers and streams near the forest floor.
okay, and can you name another mammal? If you happen to know what the mammal might be. Can you name another mammal?
Whale.
A whale is a mammal, and we are also mammals Okay, the next paragraph I'd like to have one person read that paragraph. Karina.
Beavers eat bark, twigs, leaves and roots. They have wide flat tails. These tails help beavers to clear a placement, Beavers use their split claws to comb their own fur. They also use their claws to spread oil onto their fur. This oil helps keep them warm in the water.
Okay, before we go on, as we're going to be looking at a lot of things, think about what it is you're learning. What's something new that you're learning about this beaver? Now, before we go on, everybody put your finger on the caption. Okay, caption. Makayla, what does the caption say?
A beaver's fur keeps it warm in the snow.
All right, very good. So, let's take one more thing. We're going to take a look at a diagram on page seventeen. So, now let's go to page seventeen. And this talks a little bit more about a beaver. And the title, let's put our finger on the title of page 17. What does the title say? Keelie
Graph Section Diagram
Okay, we're looking at page 17 right here. Put your finger on the top of the diagram, And that's the title. What does it say Keelie?
Beaver lodge.
Okay what is, we know a beaver is the animal, What's a lodge Keelie?
Their house, where they live.
Yea, it's like their house. Okay, next there's a caption built into the diagram and it's green. Let's have Sergio read the caption there.
This beaver lodge was built on a shallow part of the wood floor. If it wouldn't float, the lodge will have to be rebuilt.
Okay, very good. Let's get some more information. There's some other things in the diagram to give us information, Makayla.
Some lodges are two meters, 6.5' high.
Okay, very good. And, Keelie.
The lodge is made from logs and sticks.
Okay, and Eddie, the last one.
Beavers come in and out under the water.
Okay, so this is where they live. This is how they live, and why do you think they build their house this way? Anybody? What do you think they do? Why do they build it this way? Karina.
Because when they, when people come, like hunters, if they want to catch them It is going to be difficult for them.
Okay, like predators? Other predatory animals?
Yeah. So this is a way they adapt. So, how do they adapt to survive in their environment? Makayla.
To enter from the underground water.
Okay, can you use adapt or adaptation in a sentence? Beavers...
Beavers adapt to
Beavers adapt how? Yea, Karina.
Beavers adapt by entering from a little hole under the water.
Okay, so they adapt in that way, other predators can't see when they're coming. And as we saw on the sticks, the sticks, they just pile these sticks up on here and they move them around until they make something that looks like this, okay? So, what kind of a habitat do the beavers live in again? Using the word habitat, I'd like you to tell me. What's the habitat of a beaver?
They live in lodges.
They live in lodges. Okay, what's around their lodge? Yeah, Karina.
Sticks and wood.
Okay, sticks, but then what is this blue stuff here?
Water.
It's water. Yeah, so they actually go underwater to get into their home. And that makes it very safe. So, I would like you to add one more thing to what you learned on the third column of this organizer. Okay? Okay, once you've got one third, okay. And, Eddie, when you've got something, why don't you tell your neighbor? When you've got something, tell your neighbor what you learned 
Like this?
Okay. Actually, right here, yea. What you've learned.  Okay, and if you were to go out somewhere, and you were in the woods, what would you see? What do you think you would see from this house? This is all water, so all you're going to see... Are you going to see the hole that's here?
No.
No. What do you think you're going to see?
The sticks.
Just like a stick. Just a mound of sticks, about two meters high. Which is probably about that tall.
