That's a start, ok, Devon and Sasha? 3 1/3, what are the classifications?
 Natural.
No, not natural.
 Rational.
Yes, rational.
 Real.
Yes.
Ok, it's rational, and it's real. Now Brian, you had first said natural.
Yeah, I kinda, because a fraction isn't natural.
Ok, right, a fraction is not natural. Who else can tell us something about natural numbers then? What do we know about our natural numbers?
They're the counting numbers.
Yeah.
Ok, counting numbers, what do we mean by that, the counting numbers?
 Numbers that you count with?
Like one, two, three.
Ok, our natural numbers are our counting numbers. So 3 1/3, again, was just a--
Rational.
Rational and a--
 Real.
Ok, very good, somebody else. Ok go ahead, Natalie?
Square root of 19. What are the classifications?
 Rational.
 Hold on one second, thank you. Can you show us your number? So the square root of 19. Ok.
 Irrational?
It's irrational, I decided.
 It's irrational. 'Cause it's the square root of a nonperfect number.
Nonperfect square.
 Nonperfect square.
Ok, so Sasha and Christina both agree that it's irrational, and Christina, what else did you say? I'm not sure if they heard.
It's a nonperfect square.
Ok, it's not a perfect square.
 And it's also real.
Ok, it is irrational, and, we wanna remember that, an irrational number is also a real number, even though it doesn't end or repeat. How did you know, without using your calculator, that the square root of 19 was an irrational number?
It doesn't make a perfect square.
Ok, and how do you know it doesn't make a perfect square?
Because, I have no idea.
If you multiply two numbers, you don't get it.
Ok, very good, that's exactly right.
You actually can multiply two numbers to get 19--
It's just a decimal or--
Yeah, it's an irrational decimal.
It's an irrational decimal, ok. So you can multiply, and we looked at an example, of that, we did a little activity with the square root of 19. Is it gonna be two whole numbers that you could multiply, to get 19? Mm-mmm. And that's what makes it irrational. Compared with, if you did like the square root of 16, what two numbers can you multiply to get--
 Four and four.
Four and four, ok, good. Ok, how 'bout another number? Go ahead.
The classifications of 1/3.
Rational and real.
Ok, rational, real. Anyone wanna throw in anything else about 1/3? Mm-hmm?
The greater the decimal, it's repeating.
 Right, it's a repeating decimal.
It doesn't end, but it does repeat.
 Ok, so if it were--
If it was, you could get a rational number.
Right, and that makes it a rational number, very good. Ok, we looked at several numbers. How about someone ask a question? Someone wanna throw in a question? Ok, go ahead Scotty.
What integers are also whole numbers?
Ok, what integers, and let's make sure everybody's having the opportunity to answer questions. Repeat that again.
What integers are also whole numbers?
Ok, so what integers are also whole numbers?
 Two can be a whole and an integer.
Ok, what did you say first?
Two.
 Ok, two is an example, it can be an integer and a whole number.
 Positive numbers? Positive numbers?
Ok, our positive numbers.
 Negative numbers could be, too.
 Can negative numbers be whole numbers though?
 No.
 No?
It can, zero.
Ok, zero.
Positive numbers.
Ok, who remembers, what example did I give you, when we're thinking about whole numbers?
 Pets!
What can help you think about whole numbers?
Pets?
Ok, Sasha says pets. Who can elaborate on what that means?
The number of pets you have--
Count the number of pets you have.
And then we asked for a number or something. They wouldn't say, like I have 3/4 of a dog or something.
Ok, so if you'd ask somebody how many pets they have, their answers are always gonna be what?
 A whole number.
A whole number, which, and what are our whole numbers?
Zero, one.
Zero to infinity.
Zero through all the way.
Ok, mm-hmm. Zero and all. Alright, good. Good question, Scotty. Let's have another question. Go ahead Luke.
Is a negative number rational or irrational?
Ok, turn that around so we can see. So is a negative number, can it be classified as rational, or irrational?
 It would be a rational number?
No.
 A negative number is a rational number?
It would be both.
Yeah!
It would be both.
If you have the square root of a negative number.
 It's an integer.
Take the square root of a negative number.
An integer is always rational, so--
An integer is rational.
And a negative number is a, is rational.
But his question, let's see that again. Is a negative number, so it could be rational. Can we have a negative number that's irrational? Can somebody give me an example of that?
Negative pi.
 Ok, negative pi, mm-hmm.
The negative square root of two?
Ok, the negative square root of a number. Would the negative have to be on the outside, or the inside of the pi?
 Outside.
The pi?
I mean, outside the square root sign. So Luke, can you conclude us, what was your answer to that question?
Sometimes both.
 Ok, it can be both. Mm-hmm, good. Alright, good question too. What about another number? What's another number? Madison, go ahead.
The square root of 144.
 Ok, the square root of 144, who can give us the different classifications?
Real.
Ok, Damian says real.
Natural.
 Natural.
 Whole.
Whole.
Integer.
Yeah.
Integer. Any others?
Rational.
Ok, it's rational. Do you agree, Madison?
 Yes.
Ok, very good. So we looked at when that's, if we look at our graphic organizer, when it starts here with natural, we read this going out, that it has all those different classifications. Good. Ok, how about another number? Go ahead, Amy.
What is the difference between these two numbers? The negative square root of nine, and the square root of negative nine.
 Ok, I like that question. So what's the difference between those two? So on the first example, we see the negative on the outside of the square root sign, and then we see it on the inside.
 One's real and one's not.
 Ok, Damian says one's real, and one's not.
When it's in the inside, it's not real. Because you can't take the square root of a negative number.
Exactly, we cannot take the square root of a negative number. So when we see it on the inside, there's not a solution to it. What about when it's on the outside?
You can take the square root of it and just add the negative sign.
Ok, so what would that answer be, negative square root of nine?
Negative three.
Right, negative three. Let's talk a little bit more in depth about, when that negative is inside the square root, why do we not have a solution to that? So it was a square root of negative nine.
Because you can't multiply two numbers to get a negative.
Right, exactly. So if we had like the square root of nine, what two numbers can we multiply to give us--
Three.
Oh, nine, three and three.
Three and three, and remember how we talked about, what is the inverse of taking the square root of a number?
Squaring it?
Mm-hmm. So there's not two numbers we can multiply to give us that negative nine, good. Alright, let's have another number. Go ahead Brock.
Ok. 3.14, pi.
 I'm glad you showed that number, 3.14.
 That is not pi. It's rational and real.
 It's irrational.
 No, it's rational.
It's not rational, because it never ends or repeats.
 It is rational.
 Yeah, but 3.14 ends.
 Yes, it ends.
 It's 3.14, not pi.
 That's not pi. 
Pi doesn't end.
 That one ends, pi doesn't end.
Ok, so are we all in agreement that the number pi, is an irrational number that doesn't end or repeat?
 Yes.
But what is Brock's number?
 3.14.
3.14, so that number, 3.14--
 Ends.
It ends. So, what are the classifications for that number?
 Rational and real.
It's rational and real. Now when we're working problems, like area, or circumference of a circle, why do we use 3.14?
Because it's easier.
 Because it's easier.
Right, could we use a whole number for pi, to do a calculation?
 No.
No way it's gonna end.
Right, it would never end. So when we're doing our calculations, we use that 3.14. But, Brock I'm glad you had that number, so, you know, there's that difference. Pi doesn't end, but just 3.14 does end. Mm-hmm?
Square root of negative 41.
Ok, can you show everyone your number? So the square root of negative 41.
 Not real.
Ok, not a real number.
But if it was real, then, and they were on the outside, then it'd be irrational, wouldn't it?
Ok, and why would that be irrational, the square root of 41?  Mm-hmm, no two numbers that can multiply. Not the same two whole numbers. Let me ask you a question about the square root of 41. What if your neighbor came and said, I'd like for you to help me, make a fenced-in area for my dog, and I want it to be a square, and I want the area to be 41. How would you maybe respond to your neighbor?
Make it 49.
Ok.
'Cause it wouldn't be a square.
 It wouldn't be a perfect square.
If it was 41? Ok, so you, what did you say Damian?
To make it, like 41, so you could have a seven by, or 49, so you could have seven by seven.
Ok, good.
 Or make it a six by six, 36.
Ok.
I would tell him to make it way bigger, because a dog needs a lot of space.
No that wouldn't actually be a very big area, would it?
 No that would be small.
Unless maybe it was a small dog.
Yes.
A really small dog, like a teacup chihuahua.
Ok, how about another question?
Oh!
Ok.
Are repeating decimals ever fractions?
 No.
Yes, 1/3.
So you could have a repeating decimal as a fraction?
Yeah, 1/3.
Ok.
2/6.
It's a bunch of threes.
Yes.
Ok, 1/3, definitely, that was the number Damian had, a bunch of threes. And you said, now two, what about 2/6?
It's repeating also.
Ok, 'cause that will reduce back to what?
1/3.
1/3, ok. Alright, how about another number? Ethan?
Square root of two.
Alright, I don't know if you can see that, but the square root of two. What if you try to take the square root of two?
 It's irrational.
Irrational.
Ok, it's an irrational number, but it's also a...
 Real.
Real number, good, alright. Another number that we can look at? Maybe someone who's not answered. Down here? Nicole?
Five divided by zero.
Oh, that's a good one, we've not had that. How about five divided by zero.
 It's not real.
 That's not real.
Ok, not a real number again. Can we go a little bit further? Why is that not a real number?
Because there's no longer a number you can multiply by, it's zero.
 Anything divided by zero is not a real number.
Ok, I had several of you talking, and I do want to hear everyone. What did you say Natalie?
It's undefined.
 Ok, we do say that's undefined. Michael, could you add to that?
You can't divide anything by zero.
Ok, you can't divide anything by zero. And if you look on the overhead, if I were to write that out, and put five inside as our dividend, and zero as our divisor, is there a number I can multiply by zero to get five?
No, 'cause anything times zero is zero.
So that makes it undefined. Ok, very good. Ok, another number.
Ooh! Ooh! 
Ok, Cliff go ahead, and then Brock, you had your hand raised, I'll come back to you.
The square root of 53.
Ok, hold that up so everyone can see. Ok, we have the square root of 53. Classifications for square root of 53.
 Irrational.
Irrational and...
 Real.
And real, very good. Ok Brock, how about your number?
Ok, the square root of a prime number is always what?
 Ok, Brock's given us a question. Can you repeat that again?
The square root of a prime number is always what?
 Oh, that's a very good question.
 Irrational.
Ok, so if it's a prime number, and you're trying to take the square root, it's always irrational. Ethan, you said irrational, can you expand on that?
I said the square root of a prime number will always be irrational because you cannot make a square out of a prime number, you have to have two, for it to be a perfect square. You have to have two numbers, prime numbers, and you have one, and the number itself.
 Ok, only those two factors, right. Ok, very good. Ok, maybe another question. Mm-hmm.
Is a repeating decimal rational or irrational?
So if it's a repeating decimal.
 Rational.
Rational?
Yes.
Ok, very good, how about another question, that we could discuss? Madison?
True or false: a terminating decimal means the decimal repeats.
 It's false.
Ok, it's false. What does that mean, Mariah, if it's terminating?
It...
So if it terminates, it--
It ends.
It ends, right, exactly. Ok, how about another number? Anyone, an example, we've not had many with integers. I see you. How about one with a negative number? Anybody have one with a negative number? Brian, you do? Ok.
I have the square root of negative 225.
 Not real.
Ok, not real, again, why is that not a real number?
Because it's negative.
 The decimal's inside.
Ok, well not the decimal is inside but the--
 Negative.
The negative's inside. I wanna throw a number out. How about negative 4/5? For the number negative 4/5.
 Rational?
 Yeah, rational.
Ok, it's a rational number and it is a--
 Real number.
Is it a negative number?
Yes.
No!
 Yeah.
 No?
Hmmm. So negative 4/5. Wouldn't that be considered an integer?
 No.
Because it's not a whole or a natural number.
Ok, very good. What do we know, we haven't talked too much about integers. What do we know about our integers? How do we classify an integer?
That it's whole numbers and their opposites?
Ok, whole numbers and their opposites. And we used our number line in class. Do we have any fractions or decimals on our number line?
 No.
So what numbers are not considered integers?
 Decimals.
Decimals and...
 Fractions.
Ok, so if they have that negative sign in front of them, then what do we call em? If they're not integers.
