Like compared to osteoblasts... the osteoclasts to be more efficient, and work harder than the osteoclasts, therefore you're  more than you are building, so that ratio can cause brittle bones.
 So what--Okay,  right?
Yeah.
One's up, one goes down.
Yeah, if you're taking away more than you're putting back--
No, I'm sorry, why don't osteo...
'Cause there's a lack of estrogen and, or testosterone that is triggering the osteoblasts to work.
We kind of hit on that a little, I don't know.
I kinda did, but I kinda didn't.
What causes osteoblasts to work?
That it? Okay, so when they're saying that the osteoclasts are working more, what they're not saying more than they used to work, they're saying more compared to the osteoblasts, okay? It's not like the osteoclasts have been activated and are elevating their activity. They're just doing what they do. It's just because the blast activity dropped, which you guys got that, the blast activity dropped. Why did that blast activity drop?
Because there weren't enough hormones to trigger the action of osteoblasting Good.
Is everybody get that? 'Cause see now, the blast activity's what's really dropping. And the clast activity keeps going, like it normally goes, but relative to one another, you have more clast activity, less blast activity and therefore you're losing bone. Everybody got that idea? Okay, good, you did a good job reasoning that out. Okay, you can keep going, Matt.
Okay, our next question kind of gets off of like, the description of osteoblasts and it says, "How can osteoblasts-- or, how can osteoporosis be prevented?" Brooke? 
Well, they recommend having, like, a good number, a good amount of calcium intake, a day, about 1,000, 1,500 milligrams, you could do that, something simple like that could prevent like, osteoporosis in the long run.
All right.
I would also suggest regular exercise in order to, kind of build up the bones with weight bearing exercise, so that there's less, there's more bone actually broken down.
Basically, a healthy lifestyle and refraining from smoking and alcohol lots of other stuff and then bisphosphonate for extremely high risk.
Along with everything else, there's a, I went to the Food and Drug Administration, you can have Zoledronic acid, which can be injected every two years for, like, prevention along with the diet and exercise.
Anybody else have anything they'd like to add?
I was going to say hormone replacement therapy then some other... 
Nobody else? Okay. Now who's on to how is osteoporosis diagnosed?
Yeah, I found the most current one is a form called Dual Energy X-ray Reabsorption Test to test the bone density, you get a score of either one or below, means you're normal, one to 2.5 is osteoporosis, 2.5 and above it's just, your bones are gonna break any time.
All right. Anybody else?
There's just a bunch of ways that they measure the bone density, so there's like a centimeter scanner and then a quantitative,  that's what they use, 'cause it's like really hard to detect osteoporosis sometimes and not   so you kinda need more ways to test...
Good.
You can also take a sample of your  and analyze it to see if there's any signs of erosion or anything that'll lead to osteoporosis.
Okay, what's that called? Anybody know what that's called? What is it?
Bioscan.
Good.
Before you even go to the doctor, like, it's  really hard to diag--, like, there's not really symptoms of it. But some of the symptoms are like  bone pain and tenderness and stuff like that, and breaking bones with little or no trauma.
What do we call that when a bone breaks with little or no trauma? What kind of fracture?
Traumatic.
Traumatic would be if it was, kind of trauma. Pathological, good job, yeah! Pathological fracture, that would be a pathological fracture, if there's a disease under there, like osteoporosis, which has made it weak enough to break. Good call! So, somebody mentioned the scanner, Zach, right? You talked about that? The abbreviated, what did, what was the full name of that scan again?
Dual Energy X-ray Absorption.
Okay, has anyone ever heard of a DEX scan? DEXA scanner, that's where the D-E-X comes from, Dual Energy X-ray, DEXA scan, and that's very common, yeah?
Is that like what the guy from Pursuit of Happiness, ... ?
Yeah.
I don't know if you ever saw that movie.
I didn't.
Yeah, the bone density scanner.
I didn't know if that was it.
Yeah, okay, so, how did they, what the general, how they actually, what bones do they look at in the scanner?
I think it was the wrist, the hip and the spine those are the most common places for osteoporosis.
The lumbar part of your spine, because that's the first to go
Why?
What else is important to consider if you, if you think about the type of bone being affected, what type of bone being affected? What type of bone? I should remember.
Trabeculae.
Yeah, so that's a spongy bone, right? So trabeculae of the spongy bone, why would the lumbar vertebrae be particularly vulnerable now?
It's a spongy bone.
Yeah, it's an irregular shaped bone, but the body of the vertebrae, is basically a cortex in, and it's a spongy bone in there, it's all trabeculae. What was the other bones that you said, Madhura?
Wrist and hip.
Okay, so hip as in, what do you mean by that do you think, Robert?
Ilium.
Ilium!
It's all a spongy bone.
A spongy bone in the ilium, good place to look for it. But, here's the thing, what about the wrist? How come, think from a practical scenario, how come the wrist? Yeah, Lexi.
I think it's 'cause you use it like, so often, that they  is probably the most common  because you use your wrist for like basically...
Do you use it a lot? Another possible reason?
Yeah, Kevin?
Because it's a lot of like small bones so, they  may be easier to break, or like, be more fragile.
Okay, that's a possibility. Mikey?
I would say 'cause it's easy to get to, like, it's pretty hard to take like--, and actually have your hip where they do like biopsies going in to your hip. It's kinda hard to get like a good angle, but like your wrist can, there's not a lot of like skin or muscle covering it, so they can like put it under a scanner and get a pretty good picture.
Okay, thank you for that. That's exactly  why they use the wrist. I mean the wrist bones, when you think about 'em, you know, they're not weight bearing, so they're probably not the best to evaluate for osteoporosis, it would be better to evaluate weight bearing bones, but they do have spongy bone in them, they're little irregular shaped bones, which have a cortex with some spongy bone. So there is some material in there to evaluate, but you don't have to disrobe, you don't have to do anything, you just put your arm in the machine and they can do what's called a screening, a screening test. Has anyone had a screening test for anything ever before? Or thought of, ever heard of screening tests being done for other things? No? Not familiar with the screening tests?
I think I've had one.
Have you?
Yeah, because, if I had, like, it wasn't for bones though--
It could be for anything.
Like they were looking for appendicitis, but they couldn't find it so they were doing other-- all these other kinds of tests, I don't know if that...
Well, a screening test, it could be, it could be a screening test. Screening tests are basically more generalized testing, not the most specific, but meant just to give you a clue if something needs further evaluation, okay? So if you put your arm in the scanner, and it was towards the low end, it's not the best for making an end all, you know, quantitative diagnosis. But it's a good for determining if we should go ahead and do a scan of the lumbar spine or ilium, you see? So that's why the arm. So it's interesting that you brought that up, that was really good, 'cause it really helps us look at the whole, "Where is this occurring?" and "Why do they use those specific bones?" Okay, Matt, anything else there?
Our next question, we have already said how it's diagnosed, we know what it is. So, how can we treat osteoporosis?
Well I said, I found online that there were really no treatments, like true treatments for osteoporosis. It's more of trying to prevent it, by getting enough calcium and all the other stuff we said before, because you can't really treat it once it's gone.
Well, that's funny, I found something a little different, there's a few medicines right now, like talking about, you've seen all those commercials and weird stuff that actually do prevent it. Now, they're actually saying, like helping you actually reabsorb the calcium that you've lost from the bones. But it's, also something kind of funny I saw, if the bones start to become more dense, they also found that like around your jaw, starts to deteriorate faster, some reason actually get like sore throat. So I was wondering if anyone, try to reason that out. Because I could not figure out why, just your jaw starts losing calcium, but your long bones, start gaining it.
Are you saying that they're taking medication and then they're experiencing pain? So that--
Yeah, like the calcium  to deteriorate. But like your long bones it's like your limbs and everything start to become more dense.
Is your jaw a lot of , is it one of those bones... ?
Yeah, some, but there isn't a whole lot in there, there is some. 
Is it a more compact bone?
Probably a more compact bone in your jaw, there isn't a lot of cavity space, or spongy bone space there. Maybe that has something to do with that?
Even having a sore throat, I don't know why that would affect it at all. Maybe because it's a horrible medicine.
I don't know, like the thyroid gland, like this one, or the parathyroid, this is like calcium  like bone absorption, so maybe, I don't know, it's not working as efficiently, so it's not getting the through to the jawbone.
Or maybe it's working too much or something. Maybe since your jaw is losing calcium, and it's kinda gaining, like losing its calcium, so it's probably starting the beginning phases of osteoporosis. Your hyoid bone, isn't your hyoid bone isn't it... ?
Sort of high.
It doesn't really touch any other bones, but it's... kinda in there.
So it's kinda in your throat, so that could be like, I don't know, it's kinda unusual.
Just answer this one with the general area, 'cause there's a lot of instances where you couldn't sit or lay down, for like three hours after you took it because it would deteriorate your esophagus. So I don't know, there were a lot of really bad side effects just...
Well, what I was wondering, I kinda see like some doctors like, just wanted you to be aware in order to treat it would be prevention, would be the other side to treatment, just go do like those lifestyle changes. Instead of like thinking "Oh, I'll wait until these signs come up, and have platelet scans and I'll take medicine." Just to be proactive about it and have those lifestyle changes like not being a smoker and don't drink excessively, and like, have those good workout regimens so you prevent it  rather than treat it.
Yeah, seems like a disease that's either prevented or managed, not so much treated, but I thought, I think someone mentioned this before but the bisphosphonates... 'cause other people who get osteoporosis are people who take corticosteroids, for like, asthma, like in your inhaler. So it's something that inhibits bone breakdown, so it doesn't sound like it treats it, but it kind of manages it so you don't break bones...
Yeah, did anyone request a name, a name brand Fosamax? Did we see that? Yeah? Did they tell you how it worked?
No, actually--
No, well, Fosamax is like, did you see something there, Zach?
Yeah, wasn't that the bisphosphonates bind to the hydrocapsin crystals in bone and inhibit osteo, osteo-something bone reabsorption?
So they're inhibiting which cells?
 Osteoclasts.
Okay, yeah, so that's how Fosamax and those work. They inhibit the osteoclasts, so they're not building bone, though You see the difference?
Yeah.
They're not really building the bone, they're stopping the erosion, it's a little different.
But if you have like dead bone, or old bone that needs to be replaced, wouldn't that just inhibit it just as much because there's still old calcium sitting in your leg that... ? I don't know, whenever there's waste in your body that doesn't get dealt with, I mean, like when you have an appendectomy and there's waste in your appendix, that like, it can kill you if there's like waste in your body. So, maybe that would just prolong the process of osteoporosis, not so much as help it in the long run. I'm thinking, 'cause, any time you're keeping like, something that's old in your body that's not good. Like, you eat something, you have to like, you have to digest it, and I don't know.
Yeah, it's a good thought process. Good thought process. So that's what Fosamax works that way. So if we were gonna try and design something and our job is to design a drug that helps, let's say someone who has osteoporosis, let's assume they have it now. What types of mechanisms, in other words, what types of things will we try and get a drug to do? What would we want it to do?
You want it to like stimulate the osteoblasts like a little bit better. And someone already mentioned this, but they had like estrogen supplements, like supposedly like help out with that. Maybe stimulating more osteoblast ability.
Okay, well go with that a little bit about the estrogen replacement. Did anyone request that as a therapy? Yeah, Kevin?
And there's like these, like it's, like hormone therapy and we have like estrogen patches, where you can take it as a pill. So it adds estrogen to your body so, it balances out your loss of estrogen, and raises it.
Yeah, there's like, he was talking about the hormone replacement, but I also read on Google Health that it's rarely used and it's not used twice with women. I don't know if that has anything to do with it,  I can Google it. I guess like if you use the treatment once .
Any ideas why? Anybody find out why estrogen replacement, they used to, you know what? They used to give estrogen like they give vitamins, it used to be "prevent osteoporosis by taking extra estrogen." Seriously, and it wasn't all that long ago, how come it isn't get--
Because then your body stops producing, its like, natural estrogen, so...
Good idea, maybe. Any other poss--, Nick any idea you can think of?
I don't know, you're not producing enough?
So because you're not, we should get more, well, how come, have anybody heard of anything that's related to estrogen therapy, bad things? 
acial hair growth
Well, testosterone can increase facial hair growth, someone else over here?
ancer.
Cancer, and that's the problem, they saw incidences of, particularly breast cancer, went up substantially, and so that's why, Artie, they're saying that, you know, hormone replacement, it's still being used--
It's rarely used.
Yeah, but not like it used to be, not like it used to be.
So if we could stimulate the osteoclasts to work properly, or blasts, to work properly then shouldn't you like, have like some sort of treatment to, like,  make the osteoclasts work as efficiently as the osteoblasts? We would have like, sort of a difference in their relationship.
Good idea.
But isn't that the job of the osteocytes to basically maintain the bone? So shouldn't we find a way to, like, make sure that the osteocytes are maintaining the bone? Because if the osteoblasts are going to do their job once they're stimulated. But they have to be stimulated, so show me if you're looking for a way to stimulate them more than... make a more efficient solution at the osteocytes.
No, that would be more like a genetic thing, 'cause your osteocytes, your DNA is like breaking down as you get older. So it's like not, it's like, I don't know, is it mutating? When it gets older? I don't know a lot about genetics, but I know your DNA kinda breaks down as you get older, and so that makes your cells not as efficient. So it might be more of a DNA kinda thing. Where you have to engineer that DNA-wise to make your osteocytes work just as well when you're, like, 78 as when you're 12. So it might be in like that area, but I don't know a lot about that, so...
Yeah, it's interesting where you can go with it. All right? You can take this, because even Artie even you were saying something about hormones before with maybe why that treatment gave a sore throat. What were you saying about that?
I don't know, maybe it had to do with the parathyroid gland. I don't know, maybe it like produced too much, I don't know, the jaw bone, and it reached the jawbone first and I thought that it had too much and like released all of it and went to, the rest of the body...
So which hormone of the calcium related hormones would we wanna increase if we thought along those lines?
Maybe that's why your jaw's--, if you release a lot of that hormone then it's building your jaw up and when you're building bone you get growing pains. Maybe it was like a growing pain thing in your jaw? Maybe.
