...boys and girls, for the last week, we have been looking at videos about Dr. Martin Luther King. We've been reading books about Dr. Martin Luther King to get a feel for who he was, why people loved him so much, why laws were changed because of things that he said and things that he did. So, today, we are going to watch another clip of Dr. Martin Luther King. This is probably one of the most famous speeches he ever gave. It was his "I Have a Dream" speech. I don't want you to so much listen to his words today as I want you to think about what else he does as he speaks or while he's speaking that makes him such a great speaker. How does he capture his audience? How does he get people to want to listen to him? Alright. So, I want you to pay close attention. It's just a short clip. Then you'll turn to your partners. So, let's see... Let me go ahead and get this started.
 I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama with its vicious racists, with its governor having his lips dripping with the words of "interposition" and "nullification," one day right there in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, and every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together. This is our hope. This is our hope and this is the faith that I go back to the South with. With this faith, we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to...
Okay. I'm going to stop it there. And I want you to tell me first of all, what are some things that you notice that he did to capture his audience? I want you to think about it for a minute. I see lots of hands up. What I want you to do is turn to your share partner first. Talk to your partner about what you saw.  Okay. Let me have your attention back up here. I'm going to write Dr. King in the middle of this web. What I want you all to do is to tell me what are some things that you and your partner discussed about what you saw that made people want to listen and to focus and pay attention to what Dr. King had to say? Sara?
He had hand motions.
He had hand motions.
But there was no hand motions in that clip.
Yeah, there was.
I'm glad that you all saw that. I almost said something. You could kind of see this hand go up, but it was so close. The video was so close. That's why I picked that particular segment because I saw his arm and I thought, "Oh, I hope they get that," because I couldn't find a better clip. Zachary?
The way he said a few words at a time .
Okay.
He said  words at a time and stopped...
Very good. He spaced his words, for lack of something, a better term to use. Zachary said he would say a few words and then he would stop so that people could absorb almost what he was saying and then he could go on. Annie? Okay. Emma?
He spoke in a very low voice so it was really easy to hear him.
Okay. So, his tone of voice, right? We'll put tone of voice. So, it was easy to hear him.
Yeah. And then he didn't mumble. He spoke up really loud.
He spoke loudly. He did not mumble, she said. He spoke loudly.
He spoke very serious.
Yes. He spoke very serious. Jesenya?
He shook his head.
He shook his head, didn't he? He nodded. Very good.
That was my idea. He shook his head.
Or nodded. Dalen?
He was looking at the audience.
Very good. He was looking at the audience. We call that eye contact. He had notes in front of him, but he didn't do this, did he?
No.
He looked up constantly. He might have looked down to see where he was in his speech, but he always looked back at his audience. Lenare?
He said nice words that the people knew.
Okay. The words that he spoke, he had a good message, didn't he? If you have a good message, people are willing to listen to you, too. He was a good, good man. One more. Kalen?
He even had a gooder life-- a better life.
Very good. And that goes kind of along with the words that he spoke-- the good message about having a better life. All right. So, you guys came up with some really good points right here. What I want you to think about when you do your readers theater, I want you to think about how you can incorporate what Dr. Martin Luther King incorporated into his speeches to get people to listen to him so that you're believable in your part, that people can understand what you're saying. So, what we're going to do is we're going to create a rubric together that's going to help you. So, it's called Rubric For Speaking Out for Justice: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., a readers theater play, grade two because you guys are second graders. Now, let's take a look at what I've written-- listening, speaking viewing. There's a three, a two and a one. Let's do listening first, okay? Now, if three is the highest, how do you think you can get a three? Sayid?
By getting a one plus two?
Okay. But don't think about math right this moment.
Oh...
I want you to think about if I were grading you, you were grading yourself or your peers were grading you, how would you give yourself a three or someone else a three? Emma?
We start with listening. You wouldn't be just fumbling through your pages of your book and just traveling around. You'd be listening to the other people because you have to know when your part is. You have to be ready.
Very good. You have to know where your part is. Part of doing readers theater is listening to the people that are reading before you because that is going to give you your cue of when it's your turn to speak, okay? So, "I was a good listener." Let's look at number two. How do you think you would get a two? How would you score a two for listening? If the best is that you were a good listener, what would two be? Annie?
Looking at your paper and then like doing something else.
Looking at your paper but doing something else. Maybe looking away, maybe fidgeting. So maybe you tried to listen most of the time, but you had difficulty with it. So, we could say, "I tried to listen most of the time."
Most of the time.
So, what about a one? Kennedy?
I didn't listen at all.
Very good.
Like purposefully not paying attention.
"I forgot to listen." Yeah, you don't decide to do that on purpose, Whitney. Now, the next thing you're going to be scored on is speaking. So, how could you get a three for speaking? Sara?
Don't speak like just normal, like how the actor would speak.
Speak how the actor would speak. Good. Lenore? Let's do a body check, please. I need you all on the carpet.
You're supposed to like listen to what he said .
Okay. Annie?
Like speak a little louder. When you speak loudly, then .
"I spoke loudly enough for people to hear."
