 She saw sparks in the sky and a beautiful panda bear appeared in front of her.
 Don't be scared, I'm your Fairy Panda Bear. I will turn you into a beautiful princess so you can go to the parade.
 But I don't have anything to wear!
 I will wave my bamboo wand and I will take care of it.
 The Fairy Panda Bear waved her wand, and suddenly Daisy was dressed in a lovely gown. On her neck was a dragon necklace that glowed.
 Don't forget, when the fireworks are over the magic is done.
 Daisy walked up to the celebration, and everyone looked at her. No one knew who this beautiful princess was. The Prince of China saw her from across the parade. He went right to her and said,
 Hello beautiful princess. I like your outfit. Do you want to hold my dragon puppet with me?
 Sure!
 Daisy was having the best time of her life at the parade. Suddenly, she saw the fireworks show in the night sky and she knew she must leave before the magic wore off.
 Sorry, I had a wonderful time but I have to go.
 Daisy turned and ran, but she caught her dragon necklace on a stair post and it fell off. It stopped glowing as it hit the ground and the prince picked it up.
 But I don't even know your name! I feel nervous because something bad might happen.
 The Prince looked all over town for the girl who would make the dragon necklace glow. He went to Daisy's animal farm. Out in the distance the Prince saw a little shadow by the animal pen. Could that be the girl from the parade?
 Can I try the necklace on?
 Daisy tried the necklace on and the prince smiled when the dragon lit up like the sun.
 Tomorrow we should be married, right in the morning.
 Alright, then we shall.
 And they lived happily ever after. 
 Let's give our puppeteers a round of applause!
 Bravo! Bravo! 
 That was awesome you guys! 
 Class?
 Yes!
 You're going to earn yourself another smiley. Class class class?
 Yes yes yes!
 Boys and girls if you are on the list of children that are going to go out to work on an art project could you quietly stand up and walk to the door? If you are staying in with me for our work, will you sit hip-to-hip with the  person that...  I'll get it.  No, Ms. Turner wants to do it. Please sit hip-to-hip with your partner. Good job Zoe that was awesome! That was so cool.  Okay, just a second then. Alright,  ♫ turn your bodies this way ♫
  ♫ Okay ♫
  ♫ Criss-cross applesauce ♫
  ♫ Okay ♫
 Who's your partner?
 Zoe.
 Can you sit hip-to-hip with her? DeShaun face this way. Alright, if your legs are criss-crossed then look up here. Wow. Theodore why don't you pop up and go close the door for me. Alright, this morning when we were talking about the books about China, Xander wrote down a lot of the things we were talking about that were different between us and the people that live in China. So as a class we figured out that they have a different flag, they eat with chopsticks, which is really neat,
 We do too.
 Sometimes we do,  right? They have a different alphabet, they have water buffalos there, they have the Great Wall of China, and they speak a different language. And they also have dragon puppets which you just saw on the...
 Puppet show!
 What we're gonna to do now is we're gonna talk about things that are the same between our culture and the Chinese culture and we're gonna use our listening stones. So Toban, I'm gonna be coming around and I'm gonna give a listening stone to one of the people in the group, and if you're holding the listening stone you're gonna say one thing that's the same and then you're gonna pass it to your partner and they're going to say one thing that's the same. And then they're gonna pass it back, and we're gonna go back and forth and see if we can start to talk about what's the same. We know a lot of things that are different. I'm curious of what's the same. Could you please sit knee-to-knee with your partner? Can we show them knee-to-knee Zoe? Like this? Facing your partner, like we do-- There you go! I'll give you a Band-Aid in a minute Finn, okay? Can you sit knee-to-knee with Graham? Like this?
 I have another thing that is dis--
 Another thing that's different?
 Uh-huh.
 What?
 They have more dramatic designs on their clothes.
 They have more dramatic designs on their clothes? We saw that in our research material. As soon as you get the listening stone, I want you to say something that's the same-- and RJ you might want to start saying like, "we both..." might be a way to help okay?  RJ you have the listening stone. Okay? So look at Zoe, listen with your eyes and your body and say, "we both..." and see how many things you can think of. 
 Can I be the stone keeper?
 You may, yes.
 We are the same as them, because we all... 
 We all have eyes.
 We all have eyes, yep.
 We all have clothing.
 We all have hands. We both can see!
 We are the same as them.
 How are we the same as them?
 We wear clothes.
 We all have to wear clothes, right?
 We all have beds?
 We all have beds.
 Can we do something different?
 You may say something different, yeah.
 We both have to sit down.
 We both have a mouth.
 We all have hair, yep.
 No, some people can be bald.
 That's true,  some people can be bald. What else between us and the Chinese culture is the same? We all have shoes.  We can all walk and we can all do things.
 We all have bodies.
 Did you guys see  anything from the puppet show that made you think of something that's the same between us? What?
 We all can make things.
 We can all create things and be really creative. Did you see something from the puppet show that made you think we were the same? 
 We all have clothes. Did you see the clothes on the puppet show?
 We all have dragon puppets?
 There are a lot of dragon puppets at Chinese New Year.
 Oh, we all have puppets.
 We all use puppets.
 That's what I was just going to say!
 Okay, we all use puppets.
 We all have an alphabet.
 We all have an alphabet, even though it looks different. Alright I'm going to see if we can earn another point. Class?
 Yes?
  That was so good. Boys and girls hey, can everyone turn their bodies this way? Alright let's share out now, we had the chance to pass the stone back and forth, I just wanted to quickly hear one thing per group of something that you thought of that was the same. Zoe and RJ can you tell me one thing that you talked about in your group?
 We both have imaginations.
 We both have imaginations!
 And RJ said we both have brains.
 We're all pretty smart aren't we? Finn and Graham, can you tell me something that was the same?
 We both see.
 We both see.
 We both have rotten teeth.
 What do you mean by that?
 We sometimes all have rotten teeth.
 We have to go to the dentist sometimes? Yeah, okay. Xander and Nazarette, what did you guys find in your group? What? You tell me, what's the same? We both...
 We both can make things like necklaces and fireworks and actually Chinese people were the first people to invent gunpowder and that's what makes fireworks.
 Did you hear that boys and girls? Finn did you hear what Xander said? He said that the Chinese were the first to invent fireworks.
 Because they were the first to invent gunpowder and gunpowder is what powers the fireworks a lot.
 That's cool. Wait wait wait, it's Anna and Toban's turn. Anna and Toban, tell me something that's the same.
 We both have families.
 We both have families. Did you think of one Toban?
 We all have dragons.
 We all have dragons?
 What does that say?
 I'll tell you in  just a minute, okay? And DeShaun and Gabrielle you're the last ones. What's something from your group?
 We talked about...
 We both...
 We both...
 What's something that's the same?
 We all have rainbows.
 We all have rainbows?  Yeah, they see rainbows in China and we see rainbows here. And DeShaun what about you? What's something that's the same between us and the people in China?
 We're gonna have the same melanin as somebody.
 We have the same melanin?
 Yeah.
 What do you mean by, "we have the same melanin as somebody?" Here sit up so I can hear you.
 I think he means we have the same melanin in our skin.
 We have the same melanin in our skin?
 Cuz we both have light skin.
 Yeah but what if the people in Africa have...
 I'm not talking about them.
 The people in Africa have dark skin, they have more... melanin.
 Yeah but the people in Asheville.
 Oh, in Asheville. In our city we have lots of different colors of skin and different kinds of melanin but in China did it look like their skin was pretty similar? Yeah, yeah. Alright, so this is what we're gonna do. Does everyone see these circles over here?
 Yeah.
 You're gonna come up and you're gonna pick one off our chart and you're gonna go draw a picture of something that's the same between us and the people in China and then you're gonna come and you're gonna stick it back up. And this is actually a word bubble chart. Okay? So when I see you're sitting nicely I'm gonna call you up and you come pick your color and I have brand new markers at the table. Alright, Zoe and Finn come pick your color. Xander and Nancy come pick your circle. You're gonna draw a picture of something that's the same between us and the Chinese culture. You can write words too. Okay, the rest of you. It says, "We will go on hug patrol today." We're gonna see if we can earn it. You're gonna do orange?
 I wanna do pink. 
 Can I do green?
 You have to do orange or... Alright. So what's the same boys and girls? Thank you. 
 I love brand new markers!
 We have to do something on the same.
 Something that's the same. Anna what are you gonna do?
 We all have families.
 We all have families.
 Can I sit by Anna?
 I'm doing green.
 Can you sit by Anna, yes. Anna, Toban's gonna sit next to you. Sometimes you can say, "we both..." Or "we all..." 
 Xander that was cool. How do you spell melanin? You just sound it out. We all have brains, we're all pretty smart? Can you write that in words on there? You guys are such good writers. RJ, what are you writing? what are you writing RJ? Can you read it to me? What do you mean by it, "we all have rooms"?
 We all have our rooms.
 We all have art rooms?
 Bedrooms.
 Oh bedrooms, we all have bedrooms. We're gonna make a word bubble. Can you read it to me? We all...
 We all have a heart.
 We all have a heart.
