 Well I can start. I just kind of wanted to follow with Lina's going back to the very beginning of the book, and sort of I guess a response to Mariana's comment. I think that a big focus of the book is sort of that beginning story with the starfish, like at the very very beginning when she talks about how one girl tosses back a starfish and then she brings all the other people that toss back starfish, so it's not about making this huge change in one moment, cause that's never going to happen. It's about that one step where you inspire somebody else to take the next step. And since we are young adults, you know if we take that step now and we continue taking those little steps throughout our entire lives, before you know it things are gonna change. So even though it seems discouraging like "oh it's really hard and upsetting", and speaking from personal experience it can be upsetting, it's about continuing on and taking those little steps.
 Yeah you know, at the same time I think there's something hard about it, but it's not something that is beyond our control. It's just--we don't want to appear confrontational. Because I thought we were having this discussion on Friday, I was listening in my science and physiology class to what people were saying, and was listening if there were any instances, although it doesn't count as racism, you count it as prejudice by definition, I was listening for instances and actually something does kind of fit. Because there was this one girl who was talking about how her stepfather was or her mom's boyfriend was really mean and was always cheating on her mom and yelling at her, and he said "Oh I wish you were white, he wouldn't do that stuff if you were white." This was a black girl. There was this other, in my physiology class--
 Isn't that not racism?
 Well, that's not--
 Do you think she was serious or don't you?
 I don't know, but you know even if it's joking, it's still a pretty serious thing to say. And besides, there was a Mexican boy in my third block class who was making fun of one of his friends, some relative saying get a bean or a shnean . But you know, even as jokes these still have effects and these are instances where I could have said "Well no, that's not an appropriate thing to say. "That could be offensive to people." But you know I didn't, just because I didn't want to be confrontational. So obviously that's some fault of my own for not getting involved there.
 Going off of what Tomas said about the ethnic jokes or whatever, I'm wondering if you're considered actively racist if those jokes don't bother you. Like I hear that all the time in my third block class, and it doesn't bother me. It's kind of funny sometimes. Because a lot of the time it's not interracial, it's the same race. You know what I'm trying to say? There's no Armenians, but I can't roast another Armenian. Should I throw this? This is not gonna work.
 Laser it, bro.
 Maybe you should just call on somebody and then throw it. 
 I think while racist jokes can show racism they can also show an amount of... show how comfortable we all are with other races and I make fun of my parents, I make fun of my teachers because I'm comfortable with them. 
 Maybe we should talk about that.
 And I mean, I can  do it because we love each other and  it's okay,  it's unconditional. So even if they may get annoyed at me we become stronger from making fun of each other. I'm scared.
 So going back to  what Lina was saying at the beginning and what Tomas was saying a little later is with the escalator thing, I felt that was a good metaphor for the system but it also struck me as a bit of a false dilemma. She makes it out that racism is the biggest problem facing us today, and not to say that it's not a giant problem but I feel like one can be passively anti-racist whilst working actively towards anti-poverty, anti-hunger, anti-war, and making a difference in the world whether it's in the field of racism or not. And then going back to what Tomas said about the... and I lost my point, what was it? It'll come back to me. Who wants to go?
 I think Tatum would agree with you and she would even I think say that while you're actively combating say poverty, you are having a positive impact for, say poor African American families. And she points out the correlation, statistically speaking between ethnicity and class. But one thing I want to say in relation to some comments from over there is that I think that one thing that it means to become an adult, and I'm thinking what Holly said, is to suddenly be forced to think of global concerns and think beyond our own individual needs and wants. And I think it's really as simple as that what Tatum is asking of people. That she's asking them now you consider your duties to the people around you. I want to hear from other people.
 I got my point for Tomas, it's coming back. It came back to me. I had two points when I asked for the yarn then I forgot one of them, and I just remembered it.
 I want to encourage other people to speak up too. And we've got 10 minutes left. There's a lot of voices that haven't been heard yet today. What I'm gonna do is something that I'm gonna encourage other people to do too. I'm gonna toss it to somebody who's not wanting to speak and make them make their voice heard.
 I'll keep it short and then I'll throw it to someone.
 Okay. Toss it to somebody who doesn't have their hand raised though.
 So back to what Tomas said about the confrontational thing, is it's really hard to strike that medium between either being confrontational or being patronizing. And it's the fear of the reaction of either one of those that I think stops most people from speaking up. Like either confrontation or you're appearing patronizing and therefore destroying racial relations even more. So, Samuel?
 Yeah, sure. Well I was gonna say out of what Chris was saying sometimes racial humor can actually-- I think while sometimes it contributes to racism, and I have a problem with telling too many off-color jokes and gender-related jokes. But I think sometimes that kind of humor can start to eliminate prejudices and bring that into the broader dialogue and stuff. So if you look at people like comedians say like Dave Chappelle, how many can say that he's a racist person because he makes lots of race-based jokes in his comedy? On the contrary, I think he actually helps bat those issues by bringing that humor out.
 When Tatum mentions the fact that she thinks there's no such thing as being passively anti-racist, I think what she means by that is like it's sort of hard. I actually got to mention you know, our society we have a lot of comic jokes and all of these other things here present in the system of housing and stuff is... unweighted or whatever. It's kinda difficult to... how should I say it? I don't know what I was trying to say. I can't put it out into words but anyways, I kinda agree and disagree with her. It's like you can do little things to change, however what I was trying to say is that it's a lot out there and it may be difficult. That was all I was trying to say. I don't even know. Here you go.
 What I would say about jokes and stuff at times it shows that you know we're addressing it sorta kinda in a way, but at the same time it just shows how much we see it played out in our society. And then for some people that say it that aren't actually trying to make a difference it's like, I mean it's gonna be hard to make a change and be like "Hey, let me correct that." Because to them it's just like all fun and games. But to us it's like, okay. Yeah. 
 It stopped. It died. I agree completely with what Laticia is saying. Although for instance how Sam was saying about Dave Chappelle, although people make jokes as they do address that in that manner, it's not like people make jokes so people understand that "Oh, we need to break these stereotypes." I've come to realize that every joke has a little bit of truth in it. Obviously yes, by making these stereotypical jokes yes we're addressing it, but my point I guess is just it doesn't necessarily prove that people are anti-racist.
 Alright, I just wanted to say the question, the prompt is why is there no such thing as being passively anti-racist? And it's because racism is so ingrained in our system and our being. From when we're born we're exposed to racism consistently. And because of that we can't be passively anti-racist. Our default setting for the most part is being racist. Not overly racist, but we are. So it's not possibe just to not be racist by being alive. Once you come to being in this world, you are racist. You can't change that, so that's why there's no such thing as being passively anti-racist. You have to work at being anti-racist. It just doesn't happen.
 So I completely agree with what Wyatt's saying. The way I look at racism is it's like a poison and once you've been injected or you know, whatever to it, it stays in your system forever. And there's always gonna be a little part of it no matter how much you try to get it out of your system there's always gonna be a little bit of it in you. So before you can fix the people who have been exposed you have to get to the source of the poison and stop it. Which would be parents or teachers. I don't know.
 I'm a source of it? 
 You know like crazy teachers who say the wrong thing and then students go home and like, "Oh yeah my teacher said this" and then they go and tell their other friends and stuff and they kind of get passed around. I don't know, it's not you. I'm just saying. 
 I don't believe you.
 Yeah, I agree with Wyatt and Brooks because I think that we were talking about how Disney movies may have these subliminal racist undertones but at the same time, there are racial undertones to everything that anyone says, basically, right? There are always implicit messages which aren't necessarily said overtly which may come through to the way people word things. There are subtle subtle messages and the attributes come through peoples' speaking. So everyone's totally surrounded by all sorts of prejudices from all sorts of different sources from the time they can understand words. So, yeah.  If someone's gonna hit you in the face, it might as well be this.
 I want to go back to what Brooke just said about parent kin thinking about racism. I mean, how many times have you ever hear your parents saying teach you a lesson about racists? They don't even try.  They might just give you some parental info on your surrounding. Or just say those joke you were talking about.
 So you're saying that you think parents should have conversations with kids?
 I'm saying that parents should know how to combat racism, and they don't even try.
 Going back to what Ryan  said earlier, I agree because if they keep using racist jokes as jokes then it will become overused and kind of a cliché so people won't want to use it anymore.
