What note are we going to start the question with for bell? Marilyn?  Doe, it's going to end that note is? F, thank you. What are we going to end the question with? What are we going to end the question with? Josh?
Anything but doe.
Anything but doe. What are we going to start the answer with? Start the answer with. Paige?  Yeah, you can actually start with doe, okay? So this is really anything, okay? And then anything else for anything in between. Got it?  What part? We have 15 R's. And we have a five note scale. Abby?  The C's and the E?   Big it. There we go.  Eggs and bacon are coming off. Two eggs, whoops, one bacon. Here we go. John, before you go to your instrument boys and girls--  Yeah, well, my shoe fell off. Can I have these two rows speak the question and these two rows speak the answer? Just so we solidify the rhythm. Ready? Speak in pack, speak in pack. Ready, set, speaking first. Valentines, valentines. Pink, red and blue. Now you. I made a pretty one, just for you. Switch please. Question answer. Ready, begin. Valentines, valentines. Pink, red and blue. I made a pretty one just for you. Okay, two jobs when you get to your instrument. Remove eggs and bacon by drawing your fingernails down the nail and pulling towards you. Job number one always in this classroom is not to talk while I'm talking, thank you. Job number two, make your X. One, take off bars. Two, make your X. Ben J.  That's my instrument. Thank you. I'm going to move it now. Yeah there's . Okay, I've already set my instrument, anybody not get a turn on the basses yet this year? Not had a turn on the basses yet.
Everybody had a turn.
I haven't.
Yeah, you have. 
Okay, let's have Josh and Britney go to the back row and start their jobs.  Oh my gosh, we do not have time. Go! That row may go. Okay, you're about two seconds too late on that. Your row may go now. Draw your finger to the top of the nail and pull it towards you. Sabrina? Egg, oh they're wrong? Okay, eggs and bacon. Agata's row may go. And the last row may go. 
How come on this  it says H equals B?
'Cause in Germany they don't have B, they have H. We have instruments made in Germany.  Josh is ready, Britney's ready.  Ben is ready. Abby's ready. All right, boys and girls. You have two does on your instrument, two F's. Would you locate one, yes?  You have two F's, locate one and hover both mallets above one? Hold question on F. Speaking and playing alternating bounce C. Ready, set and here we go.  Stop, we gotta do it again because Josh remembered half way through that he was supposed to speak while he played. Let's try it again, Josh. Ready, set, and here we go.  Excellent. Answer on the other F. Hold answer on the other F. Ready, set and here we go.  Yeah, we're going to try the answer again just some of you might have messed up the rhythm. Ready, set, and here we answer.  Make your X. This time you're to do the question again, but you may use two bars this time. But we have to start beating the question on what mill?
 F.
F, so one of your bars must be F. The other bar has to be next door to F in either direction. Here we go. Question only. Starting on F, only using two bars. Ready, set, and here we go.  Uh oh, what are we not supposed to end the question over? Dawn?
F?
F, this time you may use your whole instrument for the question, you have to start on F but don't end on F. Ready, set and get question here we go.  Good, didn't hear anybody end on F. I did, make your X for a second. I heard some people's questions that maybe sounded like this.  I don't really remember what notes I played, I was just kinda doing whatever I wanted to up and down up and down. Could I sing that?
No? ♫ Valentine, valentine ♫
 Probably not. But if my question sounded like this--  Could I sing that? Probably. Did I use some patterns in that like a good musician? I did. ♫ Valentines, valentines ♫ Pink, red and blue ♫ Okay? Try it. You don't have to do the same thing I did, but let's do some repeated notes, let's use some patterns and let's not be all up and down our instrument. Ready, set and here you go.  Not bad. Let's try the answer, boys and girls. Start at any note you want but end on N. And let's make it memorable and singable. Something you can remember, something you can sing. I made a pretty one just for you. Ready, set and here you go.  Not bad, not bad. Here's what I would like to have happened. I'm going to ask the question, Tyler's going to give the answer. I'm going to ask the question, Amanda's going give an answer. I'm gonna ask the question, answer, question, answer, question, answer, question, answer. And then the next row we're going to switch. Paige question, me answer. Kia question, me answer, you get it? Okay?
Yay!
 Shh. Paige, would you mind before we begin, arrowing over to the last slide. I want to show you what I am looking for. Yeah, go for it. When you are doing, yeah keep going. When you are doing your question, or when you are, keep going. Sorry, keep going. That's it, okay! Here's what I'm looking for. Are you alternating your mallets? Are you bouncing your mallets? Are you doing the correct rhythm? Did your question start on doe if you're the question? Did your answer end on doe if you're the answer? Was your melody memorable and singable? Here we go. My turn first, so we'll go question answer down the batch feels, and you get it. Todd. 
I forget the--
I made this pretty one just for you.  Paige, question is ready, here you go.
Do I start this time?
 Yeah, you start this time. Yeah, you're going to do the question now I'm giving you the answer.  Now, question, answer, question, answer. Let's actually do this. Question, answer, question, answer. Question, answer. Ready, Britney? Josh you get ready to do the answer. Ready, Britney, here she goes.  Oh, you know what Ben, it sounded like the end was ended on a doe.
Oh, yeah.
 All right, you want to try it again? That's why Eli was like--
Oh.
 Yeah, okay?  Ready, go.  Good, Sabrina, go.
It's, um--
 Question.
Okay.  Nice job. Now, some of you didn't get a chance to do the question or didn't get a chance to do the answer. Right? So here's what I'm going to have you do. And we have 30 seconds to do this. With the person next to you, one of you do the question, one of you do the answer, okay?   Let's try it together! Ready, set and here we go.  Answer.  Nice. Here's the beauty of the pentatonic scale, boys and girls. No matter if we're doing a million different things at the same time, if we're all on different bars, the notes of the pentatonic scale sound so good together that you can could be playing something else and it still sounds musical.
