To learn today. We're going to begin a unit on indoor ultimate frisbee, and we've got the indoor, soft styrofoam frisbee, all right? One thing about the frisbee I want you to understand, number one, it's styrofoam. That means you can easily break them. All right, please don't bend them like I'm doing here any more than I just did. Obviously, tugging on them, pulling them, poking them is going to harm the frisbee. You want it to be intact, so just use the frisbee as it's meant to be used, and don't play with it in any other way, okay? So that way we keep the frisbee in good shape. Now, here is the question we want to answer: why do frisbees fly? A lot of different reasons, and a lot of these reasons have to do with the concept of flight. All right, like an airplane, like a helicopter, or a paper airplane, okay? Now, frisbee flight's a little different than some other types of flight. Firstly we're going to look at this: angular momentum, big word, but the concept of angular momentum essentially means that frisbees fly, one of the reasons why frisbees fly and maintain stability in flight is because they spin. So, the fact that the frisbees spin is called angular momentum. All right, and again, that's what produces stability in the air. You find angular momentum in a lot of things. You guys ever use a top, a spinning top?
 Yes, at home.
That's an act of a football as a top. If I just balance this football, it'll fall, right? It doesn't remain upright. But, when I spin the football like a top, it maintains its upright position. That is angular momentum. That is why it does not fall down. The force of friction will eventually slow down the football, and that's why it will topple over and fall, but while it's spinning, angular momentum is what keeps it up. When a frisbee spins, the reason why it doesn't wobble in flight and fall from the air is because it's supposed to spin, as you can see there, and that's what keeps it stable. That's also what helps us to throw it accurately. Another concept is angular lift. Angular lift, like an airplane. There's different pressures above and below the wing. These concepts are really complicated if you look into them in detail, but the basic gist of this concept is that there's a low pressure on top, and a high pressure on the bottom, and when I throw the airplane, that pressure difference is what gives it lift and allows it to fly, okay? Now, one thing I'm going to do before I throw this airplane is I'm going to use force. Force production, I produce force behind the plane and that allows it to fly. In the same way, I will produce force behind the frisbee, and that will allow it to fly. The other end is force absorption, which we'll talk about in just a minute. So again, aerodynamic lift is when the pressure differences allow this airplane to lift, and I'm going to produce force for that to happen.
 Can I go get it?
No, we'll leave that there, all right? Now, I need one person to demonstrate how to throw the frisbee properly. Julia, please.  I'll have you stand here, now watch. You're going to, listen, I'm going to go over this one time with you, and then you're going to use these checklists on the cones to teach one another how to do it properly. Now, I know a lot of you, listen, please. I know a lot of you would like when you do the frisbee, you can throw the frisbee, but there's one... The difference between really just throwing the frisbee and understanding how to throw the frisbee. Understanding the mechanics behind it, okay? So, the mechanics behind throwing a frisbee are just this: the mechanics behind a frisbee are this: number one, I need to know my target. Two, when throwing a frisbee, you step with the same foot. Not the opposite foot, like when you throw a baseball, but rather, I step with the same foot. I'm going to point my elbow at my target, I'm going to curl my wrist and bring the frisbee across my chest. Girls, I need you to pay attention. If you miss this instruction it's going to be more complicated later. So, I'm going to step towards my target, frisbee curled up to my chest, and then point my elbow at my target. Now, when I extend my elbow, I'm going to snap my wrist. That's going to create the spin that gives this one, two, three...
 Angular momentum.
Angular momentum. And that's what's going to give it stability. So, I'm going to step, point the elbow, snap the wrist, point to my target, produce force, and on the other end, what Julia's going to do, once I throw it, is she's going to use force absorption. She's going to catch it. Fundamentals of catching. Julia, what I'd like you to do is, square yourself with the frisbee. If the frisbee moves to your right, I want you to move to your right, okay? If it moves to your left, I want you to move to your left. Because you want to meet it, and square your body to it. And last, I want you to put your hands in this position, palms together and fingers out. All right, they don't have to be touching, but we're going to try to pancake the frisbee. All right, hopefully my throw goes well. Here we go. Step, elbow, oh, wrist snap, release. One more thing I forgot to mention, release it level with the ground. If I release it at an angle here, it's going to go up or down this way, if I release it at an angle here, it's going to go up or down this way. So, release it level, one more thing to remember. Ready? Step, nice try. Don't laugh, don't laugh. All right, I want you to try the same thing. I want you to step with the same foot, point your elbow in, and when you throw, throw it, point your finger at me, remember to release it level. You're ready, go. Yes! It's all right, you can grab it with one hand, there's no problem with that. That frisbee had good spin on it, all right. She released it, did she release it level?
 No.
No, that's why it bounced off the wall. One more time, step, elbow, wrist snap, point, release level. Good catch.
 Nice one, dude!
Here you go, you got it. Perfect. Now, I could have moved to the side a little bit to catch that frisbee, but I did a little reach, and that's okay, too. All right, so with your groups of four, remember, wait, wait, wait! You're going to coach your partner in throwing and catching, use the checklist on the cones. Ready, set, grab one frisbee, go.  
Can I stand here?
You and you, here. You're going to be here. You guys are all working together, you're going to hold this. Wait, wait, wait! There should be two on each cone, one person holding the cone. Stop, where's your partner? You're going to coach her throwing. You're going to go first, and I want you to catch it, and then throw it to her, and you're going to be catching, and every couple tries, we're going to switch. Okay, pick up your cone and coach. Pick up your cone...  You're the instructor, he's going to catch, right? All right. You're the instructor, you should watch her. 
One, two, three, frisbee!
Make sure you're reading and helping!  All right, practice a couple times, and, three, stop! Stop, stop, stop. Now, with the catch, with the force absorption, okay? You're absorbing that throw, listen. I know that the throws aren't all going to be accurate, that's all the more reason why you have to move to where you think the frisbee's going to land, and meet the oncoming frisbee, okay? So, with your partner's help, coach's help, keep practicing, and we're going to switch in just a minute. Make sure you correct any improper technique.
