 Okay. What was this Animoto video telling us? Can someone raise their hand and... Yes, Brandy.
 Telling you not to plagiarize.
 Telling you not to plagiarize. Very good. So, if that's what you were thinking, you are thinking about what we're going to talk about today, which is plagiarism. Now, I'm going to go on the internet right now and we're going to look at the definition of plagiarism. Well, actually, we're going to look at the definition for plagiarize, which is "to steal and pass-off as your own." So, you can think of internet plagiarism as equal to...
 Cheating.
 Cheating, and that is considered...
 Academic misconduct.
 Academic misconduct, and that's when you get in big trouble sometimes. Now, we're going to watch a TeacherTube video about plagiarism. So, you will be using your worksheet, and we're going to hear a story about this kid named Billy, and you've got some bubbles here. So, right here in the central box is what you're going to write down-- you're going to write in this box, and you can't write anything yet because nothing's happened so far, but you're going to write about what Billy did. And in the little circles right here you're going to write the causes, why it probably happened, and you're going to predict what happens to Billy. So, we're going to start right now so I want everybody to listen carefully. Here we go.
 Mrs. Calstad
 Hey Mr. Harris.
I have to show you this research report by Billy. He did it on horses. It sounds really good. The pictures are good, too.
Oh, I love horses, let me see it. Wow, Mr. Harris, this is really good.
I told you it was.
But you know what, it kind of sounds familiar. I've seen a lot of students looking at this website called allhorses.info, and I think it's some of this exact same information. I think we should check it out.
Let's pull it up.
Sure.
Here's the website, Mr. Harris, and it says right here, "The horse has been one of the most popular domesticated animals for centuries." What does Billy's report say?
"The horse has been one of the most popular domesticated animals for centuries."
So, it's the exact same sentence? That's not good.
That's not good. That's cheating.
And look at that picture, too. It's the exact same photo.
That is the exact same photo.
Did Billy give credit to his sources anywhere on that page?
No. I don't see it anywhere.
No. Well, that's a pretty serious thing.
I've heard of students in college being expelled for that.
Really?
Yes.
I think they call it plagiarism when you copy someone else's work and don't give them credit, and that's a shame, because all Billy had to do was write down where he got his facts, and give some credit to that photo, too.
How could he have written his report differently?
Well, if you look at his first sentence, when it says "The horse has been one of the most popular domesticated animals for centuries, " he just could've changed the words a little bit. Maybe he could have explained what domesticated means. I don't think that's a word that he would use a lot.
I see what you mean.
What could he have done with this picture though?
Well, he could use this picture. If he took the picture himself, he wouldn't have to do anything, but if he did take it from this website, which it looks like he did, he'd just need to copy the web address down at the top, and that would be it. That way, he could give the photographer credit for that person's work.
So, what you're saying is, it's okay to use facts from other sources, just put them in your own words.
Correct.
And, be sure to include, in your report, who wrote these facts.
Exactly, and as far as the photos go, you can use a photo as long as you include the web address that's on your screen, and I think in library and psychology class you and I will work on that with students so everyone will know how they can properly give credit to their sources.
We definitely will. That sounds good. Now we just need to talk to Billy about this.
Sounds like a plan.
Where is that Billy?
 Okay, you have your work sheets. Let's start filling them out right now. Make sure your name's on your paper, and we won't take too long, we've got some extra time  as well. So, when you start writing, if you have a question, raise your hand. You're going to do the predicted cause and the predicted effects. Now, while you're filling these out, I'm also going to ask a question. I want to do a quick question. What do you think happened to Billy? Can somebody raise their hand and tell me? What do you think might happen to Billy?
 He got in trouble with the teacher.
 He probably got in trouble with the teacher. Anybody else?
 Detention.
 And possibly detention, yes.
 Suspension.
 Say it one more time.
 A suspension.
 Very good. Okay. Now, let's do a quick think pair share. Okay, what is the message of this video? So, talk to you neighbor. Let's think in a pair. Talk to your neighbor. The person sitting right next to you. Cassie, you work with Brandy. Brandy, you work with Santiago. Talk to your neighbor real quick. Your question is, what is the message of this video?  Okay, we're going to stop right now. Raise your hand if you can share, if you can share out right now. Yes.
 He could use facts and research .
 Very good. So, if he used facts and research information in his own words this wouldn't have happened. Yes.
 He has to give credit to the original site, or the place he got it.
 Very good. Thank you, Cassie, that was great. Okay. So, now we've done our video, and I just wanted to say that, as a sixth grader, I made a big mistake. Before they had the internet, I used an encyclopedia set and I copied stuff into my report, and I thought "Here's the information, " I didn't realize I was actually plagiarizing it because I didn't put it in my own words. So, now what we're going to do is, we're going to move over to our renaissance responders. So, right now, you're all logged in, and I am going to go over to that right now, and we have a survey. So, it's all re-programmed, and we're ready to go, and what we're going to do is, we're going to flip our paper to the back side, and you've got your questions right here. We're doing an anonymous survey to find out how you feel about plagiarism. So, I don't want you to feel that it's going to be something that I'm going to know your response to, because it really is going to be anonymous, and I want you to circle the answer that is the most popular response to the group. So, when you look up here, you're going to see a graph, and you're going to circle the answer that is the most popular and you're going to star the answer that is the second most popular. Okay. What is the level of plagiarism at our school? You have three choices, "students do not plagiarize very often," that's letter A; B, "about half of the students plagiarize;" C, "almost everyone plagiarizes." Go ahead and respond. Now, we're going to look at the graph, and we're waiting for everybody to respond right now, and I'm looking and I can see some people have responded and some people have not responded. On your paper, you will be circling the most popular response, and you're starring the second most popular response. Can somebody tell me what the most popular response is right now?
 A.
 A. Okay, and that was, "students don't plagiarize very often." That's good to know. So, go ahead and mark on your paper right now. A has a circle around it for number one, and our second most popular response actually is C and E, so both of those will get starred. I'm so sorry, did I say E? I meant C. I think that what happened is, somebody made a response in a column that they shouldn't have made a response in that column. So, they answered the wrong question. So, you did it the proper way. We're going to move on to our question number two.
