Tyler pushed the ball.
 Okay, well how does that, how does that affect the ball?
It makes it go faster. And make it fall.
 So why is that a problem?
Because she ran because she, because she pushed it.
 I know, but why is it a problem that she pushed it?
Because it goes faster.
 And that's a problem because? Because why?
She didn't win.
 Oh, what do you mean win?
She win the game.
 Oh, did you all make a game out of it?
Uh uh, we didn't turn a game into it.
 Okay, well what are you doing then? He's playing a game, what are you doing Kylie?
He's rolling and see, not playing a game. Just rolling and seeing where they go.
 Wait a minute what? Rolling them to see what?
How many sticks it takes.
 So did you push all of them or are you all taking turns doing each one?
Taking turns.
 Oh, okay. So do you think that to find out really how far they go everyone either needs to push them or everyone needs to not push them?
Not push them.
 So is that what you're saying, it wouldn't be fair if she pushes hers, but no one else pushes theirs? Because pushing makes it go faster you said. Okay. Alright so, it makes it what? Makes it go farther okay. Alright, so do you wanna, do you want, was anybody else pushing theirs?
 Rebekah.
 Okay, do you want Rebekah and Kylie to do theirs over again? Alright, show them how you and Todd did yours so that everybody can do theirs the same.
Now I guess I'm gonna have to get our ball. 
I need ball number two. We need a Captain.
Miss Henderson, can I be the Captain?
 We don't need a Captain. You're all doing what, you're being what? We're not being Captain's, we're being what?
 Scientists.
 Scientists. So work together. 
 Wait, don't pick up her ball. She hasn't measured it yet.
Five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11,
 21 sticks.
Where is 21?
 You looking for it on the hundreds chart? Are you looking for it on the calendar? You can get up and point to it.
 I got 18 sticks for my ball.
 I can't find it anywhere.
18 sticks.
I'm going to see how many sticks I got for my ball.
 Okay, how would you find 21 on the chart?
I don't know.
 Where could you start?
By one.
 Okay.  
20,
 Oh, you found it. Do you need more sticks honey?
17, yes.
 Okay, go ask another group, can you borrow some sticks?
Another ball. 
12, So it takes half of 14.
Because she said, "No, I'm using it." And she, and I said I have a idea and she said no.
 What was your idea John?
I was just trying do it on my head, like on my back of my head then down.
 Use your head as a ramp?
Uh huh.
 And where did you have the ball hun?
In her pocket the whole time.
 Why Em? Does the ball belong to you or to the group?
Group.
 So if you're not using it, should you let someone else in the group use it? Okay, go ahead.  
Roll it on my back. And now roll it. If it does it... Right here. No, I mean like right here.
 Where do you want them to, where do you want them to start the ball? I think is what they're asking.
In my head, somewhere like right here.
 Because a ramp starts where?
On the top.
 Up high. And goes down. So if you're using his head?
I would lay like this.
 Oh. Did that work?
Yeah.
 What do we do with it, after we do our balls?
 Okay, you can just keep experimenting with the balls and the ramps and we're gonna clean up in just a second. Put your name at the top of your paper please.
 We used it on this one.
 You're supposed to do all four of the balls. Ball number one, ball number two, ball number three, ball number four.
 We would do ball number three?
Number one is this one. How about number one?
But this one. Which number is that one?
So get number three, we'll have a race and we'll...   
 So what are you all doing with the ramp now?
We're putting it on the chair. And whoever gets it, whoever gets down to the bottom first. 
We were actually gonna roll off it.
 Well, why won't it roll off that ramp? Because why? What stops it?
The block.
 The block stops it, okay. So.
How much does it go? Try the little one. Whoever is in front of me move.
I got 10. 
Miss Henderson, everybody is taking our balls.
 Okay, guys I would like for you to clean up your things please. I saw some great science learning, science work, put everything back in your basket and then please meet me on the rug.  Put your paper at your seat. Quickly. Let's see how quickly we can clean up. Id like for you to come to the rug and share some things you've learned. John, you have to put everything back in your basket buddy. All the sticks and balls please. And then you may put your basket on the art table.  Thank you to everybody who's moving quickly. Thank you to everybody who's moving quickly.   Okay, let's come to the rug and let's share some things that you learned today. Move that way please. I said put your paper at your seat for now.
Miss Henderson, Braxton said this isn't whistling. 
 Okay, well we're not gonna debate whistling right now. Okay, thanks so much for everybody coming back to the rug. Okay, I would like to know who learned something about balls or ramps or forces in your science work today? Tell us something you did, something you figured out. Bryson.
If you push the ball it goes farther. If you don't push the ball it goes not farther.
 Okay, alright. Who else learned something else through their science work? John.
That when you put like a stick in front of it and then you put another ball in front of it and then like you roll the ball and see how much it goes. And then you try another ball and see like if it gets to the stick and if it doesn't get to the stick then it gets farther and, and we tried whoever gets to the stick. It goes, it's the same height then we just rolled it and then the green ball got the farthest.
 Okay, the green, okay. Todd, what's something you learned today through your science work?
If you push it it'll go farther and that's it.
 Okay, alright anything else we haven't mentioned, Eli?
There's a block in front of it and if you move the block a little it, it will go past it. If you make a ball, if you make a block go all the way across it and you have a big ball it might bounce across it or it might stop.
 So the block stopped it sometimes?
Yes.
 Sometimes the ball was going fast enough to jump over it?
Yeah. But sometimes it stopped it. Okay, Grayson.
Well, sometimes what I did was I kinda put the ramp like that and a little block across and then I was rolling this big ball and once it hit it, it kinda like jumped up in the air and went--
 Harleigh.
And moved in. And for like three blocks for three sticks.
 Okay, Preston, what did you learn today?
If you, like if your hand go fast, the ball goes fast. If your hand goes slow, the ball goes slow.
 If your hand goes fast, what do you mean by if your hand goes fast?
Like if you're at the bottom and  and you do that. And go like that it goes fast.
 What is that called that you're doing?
Pushing the thing.
 So if you push the ball fast it goes fast and if you push it slow, it goes slow?
The force.
 Interesting. The force of pushing, okay Chloe.
I learned that when you lay it diagonal it goes--
 When you lay what diagonal?
What is it called again?
 What?
A diagonal line.
When you lay it down diagonal it goes down faster.
 What is she talking about Eli, the what?
She's talking about a ramp.
 Oh the ramp, when you lay the ramp diagonal?
Uh huh. The ball goes fast. When you lay it straight it doesn't go fast, it just sits there.
 Oh, so if it's, if it's less. If it's a lower ramp it goes less. If it's a higher diagonal ramp you're talking about, then it goes farther? Interesting, Brody?
We tried it with our heads like down and the ball goes down like that.
 So you made, you made ramps with your bodies? So did it go-
