Now, watch this felt as I pull this up and down. See those bubbles in it? Right here, I got the bubbles at the top that means I gotta pull it down to get those out. You want this stuff laying flat. If it doesn't it'll probably show up underneath the machinery. If I pull it down too far, it pulls a wrinkle in the bottom. So you want to make sure you get it straight and get all the wrinkles out of it. I've got them out and I'm just a little bit below my line right here, but that's okay. It's more important that this is out right here, that it's on. Does that make sense?
Yeah.
So just make sure. Now you want to come out here at this point and get you one right here. Don't forget our nailing pattern that we discussed. Here, here, here, here, and here. You can feel right here where the plywood is. You want to put a button right here, and your nail line is going to be right in here on this. You don't want to nail into the fascia board. You want to come right across in here and put them every six inches. And about every two feet right here, and one occasionally. Be careful not to step on the felt. Step on the buttons so you don't end up sliding. Just be careful anytime that you're stepping on felt. You never want to step on loose felt. Okay? All right. Go ahead and nail that off. This one right here. See how you're doing this shingle?
Yeah.
We're gonna come back with a starter right here, turned upside down. This right here is gonna have to be cut off. So go ahead and just cut this off even, that'll be fine right now. This one over here, don't nail that yet. Hold on just a second. Come here a minute. You can do it that way. That's one way that you can run it down and cut it, or right here I can just take this soldier, just like this, and I can cut it off right here. Or I can just lap it up there and nail it like it is. The other soldier is coming down to right here. So just come up here and cut this off. Got your hook weight on you?
Yeah
Take and cut one tab off of the shingle, flush it up and nail it on and then go ahead and start your starter tabs up there.
It doesn't have to be straight right? I just cut it?
Pardon?
Does it have to be straight? Just eyeball it?
No, it doesn't have to be perfectly straight, just go ahead and hook your hook blade right here and pull it straight back. That'll be fine. Hold it down. There you go. Never cut back on your handle. These right here we'll be able to use for the caps on top so don't throw these away. Tabs always go in on these. So make sure your tab's in, flush it up, and nail it off. Once you've done this you need to pull a layout, and in the classroom we talked about layout on three tab shingles. If we're gonna go off the end of the building what are we gonna pull?
Thirty, 36.
We're gonna pull 36 inches, and we're gonna pull 30 inches. Top and bottom, topping your lines.
All right.
Does that make sense?
Yeah
Okay so do that. Once you nail this off do that, and then run your starters. You can go ahead and cut that off. The inches right here you can go ahead and cut them, come right here and cut it off right here on the edge of the plywood and then that will have you ready to put your shingles on in a minute. You got a hook blade? Y'all have it? You go ahead and do that, then you can do the other side right here.
Background Chatter]
Go ahead and get your lines snapped, put them on there and mark it and pop your lines. Either way. You can do it either way, it doesn't matter, but since we're gonna go ahead and start these they need to be on the 30x36 way out anyway. Flush it up and hang it. 
Don't pull that down. If you do that's just gonna take and break that shingle off. This right here is establishing the overhang that we wanted, that inch and a quarter off the edge of the building; so we want our finished shingles to come right here also. When you pull your 30x36 for your layout on your three tab you want to go all the way to the edge of the soldier joist. Go ahead and mark that at the top. You need to keep them moving, you gotta have it marked up there. Go ahead and mark it up there, and mark it right here. Get these popped and then you can go ahead and get Darius to get you a shingle and have it ready to go and y'all will be ready to put these things on. Put your starter on it...
Here? Thirty and 36.
It's raining buttons. See that button landed right there? Y'all make sure that you pick these things up when you're done. You should be able to reach right here and nail this plywood on without any problem. Once they get right here, you can't nail it move down the line.  *Hammering*
Talk to him, what do you want him to do?
Put a nail right there.
There you go. Brandon is telling you right. Y'all hold on a minute. What does putting a nail right there do? I mean you're about to put it right there--
It holds it center, because that way no bubbles or nothing comes up.
It's gonna hold it right.
Keeps it straight.
So really you can start putting buttons from down there to here, it's not going to affect anything. Because he's got that button in. From this point on we can't put any more buttons in it until he gets it where he wants it down here.
He nails it off.
Right, but you could nail this. Go ahead and start doing that. Working together as a group to get the job done is what it's all about. This is not a one man job, you can't roll this stuff out and do it by yourself. It's not a one person job.
If you want to mark that and pull that up to where you can get to it there's nothing wrong with doing that. What you don't want to do is put your foot on that felt right in there. Watch about cutting back towards your hand like that. Just be real careful. There ya go. Mike, put your hand on that roll for him. I got it. That may not be enough to cap that ridge off. So we can roll it as far down as it will go and piece it if we need to. You need a button in it now. He needs help. Help him right here. Yes, sir?
Where at?
Hold on, come on the line right there?
Yeah, come on right here.
Is that on right?
Yeah, next put the felt right here. As far as starting this next row, you got a line on...
Thirty-six inches.
You got a line on 36 inches, and you've got a line on 30 inches. We want to make sure that when you start this next run that you're not breaking. Let me see a shingle, right here, I want you to watch.  I've worked on several houses, the whole boxing  fascia boards and all this is rotten on the house. The reason for that was this right here. They put their starter on like you're supposed to, to allow for the throats of the shingles. We have no water penetration down here. But once you start this starter tabs up, over to your 36 inch line, if I laid this 36 inch shingle down and nail it off I have a straight avenue of water to get down to this felt. This felt will only hold for so long. It's going to get down here, it will rot it out and there you're gonna be. So you wanna make sure that you start this on your 30 inch line and then, give me one more shingle. Then when you butt this shingle up to this one, now what I have is I got my break right here in the center of the full tab and I'm six inches away from it. That's why our nailing pattern here is important. You want to nail above every throat, in the far line, slightly above, in a three tab shingle. Four nails, 1,2,3,4. Just like we discussed on the PowerPoint--
Above the tar line?
Pardon?
Above the tar line?
I can't hear you.
Above the tar line?
It can be in or slightly above. Most people are gonna put them in them or slightly above them. Your video PowerPoint was slightly above, but the main important thing here is that you have it to where... If you put them in random, if I put one right here, or in the middle of these two. I could possibly have a nail where I got a shingle breaking. Or I could possibly have a nail in line with a throat that's gonna line up on top of the next one. It's important to go here, here, here and here. The purpose of this tar line is when this sun heats it, and it heats up you have the next shingle on top of here it helps secure it down so wind don't take and blow it up and rip the shingle off.
So it melts down?
It'll actually seal and melt down to it. All right, you're doing good, but go ahead and make sure that you do this with this hot sun out here today you will wanna keep these cut. So use a shingle to square it up or your speed square. Mark your line and cut it straight down right here. You can nail it on first, that will be fine. Or you can go ahead and cut it before you nail it. You see this shingle right here, that's got the little slit in it? That is exactly six inches is what that is. So you can take this shingle, right here. Put your speed square up here, take your hook blade and follow along it and cut that off. Then you can nail it on if you wanted to do that. Either way, there's multiple different ways to do it. The main thing is don't just take this, put it on the 30 inch line, nail it down, and don't do anything else to it until you get up there. Y'all do it as you go. These hot days like this cool that down and it won't get it's form back. It'll look bad. So we want to keep it looking good. All right, how we doing?
Good
Good. What about right here? 
You need to put it along the edge, if you don't follow along the edge...
There's three buttons if you started, one at the top one at the bottom. What's missing? One in between so let's get them in there. Jake you mind getting that one?
Is that going to be enough to roll all this?
If not, we'll get another roll and finish it out. Just go ahead and run with what you got. That'll be okay that will lay down beneath. Be careful about the top edge of that felt. Run that, y'all can stand on this. Get a couple more buttons in between here, we're a little far apart right here. I like to see two foot. Go ahead and hop up here and stand on a button. Get you a couple more in the middle, and then cap that off. Lay it right down the center...
