So, here's the first set. I thought I'd start a little bit easy. So, go ahead and within your groups now, I'll give you like a minute to tell me all the methods that you can of how to separate, how to figure out which one it is. Okay? Go ahead.
 You can uh...
 You can you use Beer's Law for this, right?
 You aren't able to taste that.
You aren't able to, that's not big enough.
Our...
Okay, so...
 Doesn't dissociate.
 How's the temperature? Boil it.
Yeah, that's the only way.
So, the one with the highest concentration's going to have the highest boiling point.
 Yeah.
 You could freeze it and weigh it.
 Okay, freezing it.
The point three would have the most weight.
Weight. Yeah. But which one would freeze first?
 Point one.
Point one would freeze first because there's less. Okay. What else?
Point three weighs more.
But we would need to freeze it first, no?
 What? We wouldn't need to freeze it.
 The first one being, would   be with the tasting one.
Or the volume one. I don't know the tasting one.
Okay, you say the tasting one, you say the volume one. Whichever one comes first. 
 The one who boils fastest would be the one with the point one, right? Okay.
So, the one that boils the fastest.
 Point one.
You could measure the vapor pressure by also just leaving them and adding them and then just coming back after like five minutes or ten minutes.
Alright. So, we can have equal volumes of each solution, right? And then, after like a certain time--
 Alright, that's it. Everybody stop. Stop, stop, stop. Okay. So, who want to go first? We'll start with with Miles, I think you had your hand up first, so go ahead. What's one way that you can identify these things?
 Well, you could boil all the solutions until all the water vaporizes, and the beaker with the most sugar in it would be the 0.3 molar, 0.2 would be the middle, and 0.1 would be the least.
Okay.
 If they were all the same volume.
 Ahh...
 Yeah. You guys heard that, now? Good. Good listening skills on that. If they were the same volume at the beginning, alright? Does everybody agree? So, one method is boil away and weigh. Did you say weigh? How do you know which one has the most? I would imagine you could weigh it, right?
 You could weight it.
Start with equal volumes. Okay. There's several other ways. How about Joseph?
If you take equal volumes of each solution and you taste them, whichever one tastes more sugary would have the highest concentration. 
Okay. Anybody have comments on that? Jimmy?
I don't think we're able to distinguish the taste that well. Because our mouth isn't that sensitive.
 Okay. Miles?
What if someone dropped some lead nitrate in there? 
So, there's two concerns. Obviously I think Miles is the most important. You know you guys can see that I'm smart enough to put the right substances.  I keep forgetting I'm getting old. And I may go in the back, and I reach for the lead nitrate or something, right?  And then the other part, what do you guys think of the other part? Could you taste the difference between a 0.2, 0.3, and a 0.1? And just say "Ah, that's the sweetest one."
 It's kind of hard.
{Miles] You'd need some salt.
The problem I think is this is something we would actually need to try, right? I don't think this is a theoretical thing that we're trying to, we're practicing theory here. We would actually have to do this in a lab, right? I would imagine we would.
Wouldn't it be different for every person? Because we could--
 It could be different for every person, right? Because I can't see as well as you, for example maybe, right? So, there could be variations in tasting of those. Ian?
Given excess humans... 
 Oh, wait. You're on the next one?
 No, on this one.
Alright. I didn't get that either.  Okay, so let's look at another method, alright? We're not going to list that one because we don't want to be tasting things. Okay so Paran, your group.
What about at equal volumes you could test the vapor pressure and the 0.1 would have the most, and 0.3 would have the least because there's more sugar covering it?
 What do you guys think? Okay, Juan?
He didn't say how you could measure it. The way you could measure it is that with equal volumes you leave them out, and the one that evaporates the fastest is the one with the highest vapor pressure. 
Everybody agree?
 Yeah.
Okay. So, that was my concern too, right? How do you measure the vapor pressure? You're not wrong. But how do measure it? And thank you, Juan, for bringing that up.
 Could you repeat that?
Okay, so you would take equal volumes and leave them out to evaporate because they'd always be evaporating? The one with the highest vapor pressure which is 0.1 molar, would evaporate the most after a certain amount of time. 
So, I'm going to write this as evaporation rate. Who's got another method? Different view? Alright, Jimmy?
Okay, so you're gonna put the same amount in a sealed container and put it into light. Whichever one grows algae first is the 0.3. Then the second one is 0.2, the last one 0.1.
What do you guys think?
 Could you repeat that?
So, you're going to take equal amounts, take it into the light, make sure it's the same conditions for each one, and then whichever one grows algae first is the 0.3. Second is 0.2, last is 0.1.
 What do you guys think? I know some of you guys are thinking that's bio, but you took it, most of you at least right? So, we could finish this. What do you think?
Wouldn't it take a long time for the algae to start growing?
 It's going to work, right?
 Nobody sees--
 Where's the algae--
 You're always asking me. Come one, folks. You think about this. I'm going to say the problems. But I want you to tell me first, alright? 
 Alright, let's go with Ivan.
I don't think the results would be consistent. Because what if some algae cells just go in one solution and start going there for no reason.
So, because you didn't mention how much algae you put in, there could be an issue there. What else, though? No Juan, you go alright?
I don't think you can assume that you have all the necessary stuff in the water for the algae to grow in the first place.
So, I think Juan is saying growing conditions require lots of other things. Not just amount of sugar and amount of water. There could be other nutrients, is that what you're saying?
 Yeah.
Nutrients and other things of that sort. Could I just back up for a sec? Algae produces sugar, right? Assuming that you're talking about algae that grows, they use carbon dioxide. So my hunch is, there's several, right? One, I think as Ivan pointed out, you've got to put in a certain amount. Why don't you put in something that eats the sugar like yeast, and then we could all finish and have a beer at the end?  You picked algae so, yeah. Although is that a bad idea? It could work, but we have to be careful with conditions. A lot of conditions need to be met. Anything else?
 You boil them.
 Hold on. Let these guys go.
If you have equal volumes and you add heat to them, 0.1 should boil first.
Okay, so you could use boiling point. Elevation. I wrote this down before we even discussed it. But everybody agrees that works, right? So, what's another easy one that we, boiling point elevation, right? You need me to repeat that or you got it?  What immediately follows with that idea?
 Freezing point depression.
Freezing point depression. Okay, what else? I have a question for you then. Could we use Beer's Law for this? No? Tell me why. Could we use Beer's Law for this? Ian, you have your hand up.
At first glace I would say no because I do not believe that stuff actually has a coloring solution.
 What do you guys think?
 Yep.
 Don't you need color? Unless what? Unless? Come on, keep going with this stuff. Not you Ian. You spoke. I'd like to have as many people participate as possible. Alright Nick, go ahead.
You could add food coloring possibly. Yeah, you could add food coloring and maybe the higher concentration would appear darker, possibly?
Nick, we're trying to figure out the difference between these, right?
 Yeah.
What do you mean "add?" You mean add a drop to each of these?
 Yeah.
But then what would you be measuring? The food coloring. You wouldn't be measuring the sugar. You know what I mean?
 Yeah, I know what you mean.
You're still okay with that?
Uh, I don't know.
Wait, Nick. If you add food coloring, how much? One drop?
 Yeah.
Okay. One drop to each of these, right? Now they all look the same.  Don't they?
 Yeah.
And if I stick this in my spectral photometer, they should all measure the same. Did I succeed in figuring out which one is which? You understand that, right?
 Yeah, yeah.
 Okay. Nat?
Could you somehow measure how fast the food coloring spreads?
That's interesting. Could you measure how fast the food coloring spreads?
You'd have to indicate that high concentration would--
[Teacher} Hang on. But once again we have to be careful of conditions, right?
 All the temperatures have to be the same.
What do you guys think?
 Sure.
Why would that work?
Because the sugar molecules are getting wet and it's not able to spread through the molecules. So, that would be in the 0.3.
 Science!
Glad you like it. Alright. How about, wait. Gevorg hasn't spoken. So I'm thinking, Gevorg, it's your turn buddy. What did you want to add? You wanted to add a new technique? Okay, go ahead.
If we did a Benedict's Test, I don't know if it would just turn the same color because I'm not sure how the Benedict's reacts with different concentrations. But maybe if you put the same amount of Benedict's and if it gets darker or it gets affected with the molarity then you could use a color emitter or a spectrometer to test.
 What do you guys think? Benedict's is a reaction between this Benedict's stuff with sugar, to show the presence of sugar.
 What comes out of the reaction?
 I'm not sure but it's a color change.
 Oh well, the more color change--
 But if the color change is too intense, it could just be like it's all going to change that color or not, see what I'm saying? That's what your pointing out, right? So again, that sounds like an experimental one. Could I share one more? How about this. You know when you take your AP test, you just don't know what. And we started with something that I think is sort of easy. Could you use density? What do you guys think? Someone who hasn't talked yet. Could we use density?  And how do we use density? What do you guys think? No? Alright, Ian. Since nobody's going for it.
Do I have to say it?
 Go ahead and say it. Tell me how. Tell us how.
Take equal volume of each of the three and weigh it.
 Exactly. Which one's going to weigh the most? The one that has the most sugar, okay? If you take equal volumes, this one will weigh the most. This will be the most dense. The more sugar you add, the denser it gets. You know this, right? Does anybody have any more? Alright, let's move on. Set number two. Now this says "solid" and I'm trying to get you to see a different range on these. Go ahead and talk about it. I'll give you a minute or so.
 Colors? 
 Conductivity?
We could root the potassium chloride out with conductivity.
Well, they're solid. You have to remember. So, solid has a lot of problems with it.
 That's just...solving it.
 It's hard to conduct a current.
 Well you could dissolve it--
 It's doable. It's just a little difficult.  Potassium.
Then um...
 Wait, calcium.
What about pH sensing? So CACL2.
Well they're solids.
Oh, if you put them into a solvent?
Yeah. Can we put them into solvents? Can we make it into--
So, lead can't dissolve in water, right?
Lead?
 I mean lead chloride.
 No, lead chloride will not dissolve in water.
 But then KCL and CACL2 would?
They would.
So, you can rule that out. That's one way. But then how do you figure out between the other solution?
Couldn't there be a bigger concentration of chloride and then you could form a precipitate?
I wouldn't say form a precipitate, I would say...  Actually, I'm thinking you can hybridize the fact the lead chloride doesn't dissolve at all with boiling point elevation, freezing point depression because you're going to have more little bits in the CACL2 than the KCL.
As an end result, calcium chloride, potassium chloride get what? PBCL2 does nothing. So, after that if you boil it, right? Calcium chloride, potassium, the higher value.
 Alright you guys. That's it. Let's gather up. Okay. Some of you guys just got back, so you guys know what we're doing, right?
 Yes.
 Okay. Let's get it together. Alright, everybody stop now. Christina, you had your hand up first. Take the easiest one. What's the easiest way to distinguish these?
You could take equal amounts of each of them and weigh them, and then PBCL2 would be the heaviest, and the KCL would be the lightest.
 Equal volumes?
I mean equal amounts.
 What's an amount, though?
Like grams. 
 But if I take equal grams, then I could have ten grams of this, ten grams of this, ten grams of that.
No, I didn't say that. 
 Alright, what did you say then?
I meant like equal--
 Equal what?
Volume.
 Volume, okay. Now let's answer that one. What do you guys think? She's saying take, let's say 10 milliliters, 10 milliliters, 10 milliliters. And this one's going to weigh the most. This one would weigh, which one's second?
 Oh, sorry. Second would be CACL2.
Okay, so this one would be second. What do you guys think? Someone other than Ian?  Okay Ian, go ahead.
Does atomic weight, atomic mass directly influence--
 Listen to this, Miles.
Does atomic mass directly influence density?
 That's the question. Does the formula mass have anything to do with the density of these solids? They're all ionic compounds. And the answer to that is no. You cannot assume that because this has the highest formula mass, that this is the most dense. Okay? Where, just to follow that up, where could you use formula mass in relationship to density in a pattern that works?
Ivan? Oh wait, let's give it to him. Just, he's just walked in. Niresh?
Is it in gases?
 Gases, right? Does everybody agree? Gases, you could do that. If the formula mass is high on a gas, then it's going to have more density. Could you do that for liquids, now? Could you do that for liquids? Ivan?
You could do it if it's all the same subsets for different concentrations.
