It's similar to when we had the hand warmer. What happens is when you add heat energy to the hand warmer, it makes the water rise up. So, in the glass, in the two liter bottle in the glass too, the heat lamp added heat to it, the heat energy. Then the water started to rise up.
Of the water, okay. So, why do you think the water spilled over last time?
I think that it's because of the molecules expanding.
 Okay.
And then the molecules didn't have enough room. Well, the water didn't have enough room, so it had to get out. So, then it popped out through the tube.
 Okay. Do you share the same idea?
Yeah.
 Do you agree with her?
Yes.
 Okay. Alright. Let's talk about this. Yes.
I have something. Like, with mine, we thought that since there was oxygen, I mean, there was a glass tube, that the water had room to expand and like, spill out. So, what's why it did.
Okay, thank you. Alright. Let me ask you something. How many of you put that water molecules expanded? Raise your hand. As a reason for water spilling. Alright. Okay. They gave you the reason why, right? So, who can tell me why you put that? Alright, Rebecca.
I put that because, well you see it... Well, in the bottle lab, we had water in there, so when it heated up, they expanded, and they didn't have enough room, so they had to, it had to come out.
 So, molecules got bigger right?
Yeah.
If you don't believe molecules got bigger, what did you guys think that the water spilled over? Yeah.
I think if the water molecules didn't get bigger, I think that the heat caused them to move around and bump into each other.
Okay, so what is the evidence for both of these? You played with the water heater. Where is the evidence to support this? Anybody? Anthony.
Like what I think is that, that the steam is like mostly involved with this, 'cause the only type of air water has is steam. And like, since the water was heated so intensely, it had to let out all the air it contained. So, it spewed out steam.
Okay, thank you very much. Good job. I'm gonna go over with Moorea. Why do you think that water... You didn't agree with water molecule being, expanding, right?
Yeah.
 So, what is your evidence that it is not expanding?
Well, I think when we added the heat to the water, I think the molecules started getting hotter, and the heat was transferred from the lamp to the molecules, and they started moving around more. Kind of like how sugar makes people, like have a sugar rush, and kind of move around more, and get more excited.. And then, they just needed more room, so they spilled out into the tube.
Okay. Now let me ask you something. If that is true, how come if I press it here, it's going down? Why? Yes, Tyshon.
Because of the heat in your hand.
What's happening, the heat of my hand? Right, Saron.
So, it goes down faster because the heat in your hand is enclosing around the top, I guess. So, it will make it come down.
 Jake.
I'm not sure, but I think it goes down faster, yes, because of everybody else saying that when you hold, from the heat of your hand. But I think it's also because gravity pushes things down.
Okay. Alright. Alec has two finger, means he has something to add.
I agree with Jake. And I also think that since the water went down, it's because it had more room at the bottom. So, when you put your hand around it, it immediately goes down, also because of gravity, and how it has more room.
 How did you come up with that answer?
Well, when you were holding the top, I saw that the bottom was empty. And like, so I thought that 'cause of gravity, when you hold it at the top, it has more room to go down--
 But if you hold the bottom. Look at the whole bottom. Hold the bottom. What's happening?
It's right there.
 It's against the gravity. It's going up. So, hold on. I'm gonna provide the evidence about the result. This is computer simulation. Watch this carefully. I want you to watch this carefully. And look at this. The right side is water. Okay, the right side is water. And, did I turn the heat on?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Okay. So, who turned it off? I'm gonna reset it. Okay. And then, heat is off. Watch. Look at air and water molecule. Let's look at the water molecules first, since we're doing the liquid part. Are you with me?
 Yeah.
Alright. What is happening to water molecule? Write it down with your group. You've got 30 seconds.  Talk to the group.
Molecules are vibrating very slightly.
Since the water's mostly cooled down, more than the air, it's more stable. It's like, doesn't vibrate as much as air, 'cause water is like, more still, and more like a solid than air.
Okay. Please observe everything. And I'm going to be asking you questions. Alright. And here we go. I'm gonna turn the heat on. As a group, you need do discuss and write everything down, what you see here. Just the air. I mean, I'm sorry. Just observe the water, yes. Everything, okay. Here we go. Group. Water only.  Okay, now discuss with your group. Alright. Water only. 
The water molecules, they aren't moving around like the air ones, but they're vibrating. They're moving like back and forth. They're vibrating like really violently. They're staying in the same general area. Like . But the water ones are like... I'm sorry, the molecules in the air are bouncing around, and when the heat is applied, they start bouncing around faster.
I agree with Maor, but I think that with the air ones, that they have more room to bounce around. That the water is all contained in one thing. So, the molecules have to stay in one position, but the air has to--
What do you think, ladies? You haven't said anything.
I think the same thing as Maor, because the air molecules have more room to the surrounding, because it's really nothing in there. And since water is a liquid it has less room. Whatever.
I see that, the more the heat gets on the water--
Alright, 30 more seconds. So, we're gonna start the discussion. There are people who need more time to write, but you already know what to do. So, here we are. Okay. I'm gonna call on individuals, so, please do so. You don't have to stand up. Ivree.
I saw that when you turned on the lamp, it started vibrating faster than--
 Which one? We're talking about which one?
The water.
 Okay. Vibrating faster. Joon Po, you think through?
The temperature also started rising very little.
 Excellent. Dylan, what else did you notice?
I'm noticing that when the heat is on, the water is starting to vibrate very fast when it's turned on, but they are staying stationary, they're not actually moving anymore.
 So, why do you think the water molecules are vibrating? Chelsea.
Because of the heat that is going on to the molecules.
 So, what you're saying is the heat source is going to molecules. Class. What do you call the heat source? Which is the lamp. What is it?
Heat energy.
 Heat energy. Very good. So, in this case. I don't know if you agree with Chelsea. Raise your hand. How many of you disagree? Raise your hand. Alright. How many of you agree with Chelsea? Raise your hand. Okay. Alright. The molecules are transferring energy. The heat energy is transferring heat to the energy. Thank you very much. Now, next part, I'm going to give you a life problem to solve. And I want you to come up with solutions. Okay. How many like to play ping pong? Oh, excellent. You know, I grew up playing ping pong, because in Asian culture, ping pong's a lot cheaper to purchase than basketballs. So, most every home has ping pong, or ping pong table, because it's easy to make out of wood. Now, having said that. Suppose you received a set of ping pong balls for holiday because you asked for it, from your parents, and your parents being really nice, and you behaved really well. They decide to give you these ping pong balls you got. The problem is you lost all of them except one. And your best friend came over to play with this. But he stepped on it on accident. So, now here's a dent. Right, he has to fix it. Can you fix it? You're all worried. Because you've never seen anybody can fix this. So, give me some suggestions by talking to your group. Alright. You have buddies back up there, alright. 
Kind of like the water bottle, right. Especially like, you can fix another part. Maybe you could do the same thing with the ping pong ball.
Like if you start to squish the ping pong balls down, and maybe you could  its place.
It'd be easier to pop it out.
I think you can apply air. You can apply air like with heat. Like at least heat. 'Cause you know when the heat was added to the water? Right. Like you could apply air with a little...
Do you need more time?
Like the thing--
Okay. So, I'm going to write the solution, alright, by asking group that has an answer. Just stand up one at a time, the group that hasn't answered yet. Alright. So here's a solution. Say ping pong ball dilemma. Alright. Okay, number one. Which group is gonna be? Just stand up. Just stand up, if you haven't spoke in this group.
We already thought that you could try and use your hands and  like pop the air back into it and get it to its original shape.
Okay. Alright, number two. Something different. Which group that hasn't spoken yet? Okay, Chelsea's group.
Alec said that if you push around the edges, it might pop back into shape.
 So, kind of the same thing. Yes.
We think that somehow if you maybe poked a hole in it, you can use, like an air pump, or some sort of machine to get the air in it, and maybe the air will push against the dent. And make it a sphere again.
 Let's see how many of you believe this dilemma, raise your hand. Okay. Alright. How many of you believe this is gonna work? Raise your hand. How many believe this is gonna work? Alright. Is there a third option, anybody? Okay. Yes.
I don't know if this will work, but maybe you can put in front of a lamp.
Okay. Excellent start. But why would you put it in front a lamp? Let me ask you something.
Maybe so that the molecules in it, like in the water example, maybe they'll start, like vibrate...
 No, you're okay.
Well, it's air, so--
 You want to add heat energy, right?
Yeah, you want to add heat.
 Alright, so, we're gonna try all of those. So, let's try with number one. So, I'm going to give Sasha a ping pong ball that's been dented by my best friend. Or not my best friend. Her best friend, so she's gonna try to do it. Okay, number two is what? Pop a hole in it. So, how many of you disagree with this? Or of this idea. Why would you disagree with this idea, Dylan?
Because if you poked a hole in it, it would be kind of like, ruin it, and release all this stuff, and it would be kind of hard to--
 Okay. What are you ruining in this case?
The ping pong ball.
 In other words. What you're saying, is a surface of the thing?
Yeah.
 Okay. Did you try?
Yeah, like it's really hard. So, it's actually hard to pop it back in.
 Let's see. Who's strong?
Me.
Okay. You're strong. She wants to do it. If she doesn't work, then let's do it. Okay, how about the lamp? Lamp thingy. So... Let's see. Are you the one that says the... Come on over. Okay. Leave it like this. Turn the heater on. Okay. On the top, yeah, that's it. The other way. There you go. Right there. Yeah, there, you got it.
 Oh, okay.
Oh, what happened? It helps if it's connected isn't it?  Okay. Try that again. There. So, we're gonna time it. While we're working on this for a couple minutes. Okay. Alright. Okay. Alright. So, who has the ping pong now? 
The dent was too strong.
Okay, now. Look at the ping pong ball. I'm gonna show it to you. Okay, look. You saw it right? All of you. What happened?
It has more dents.
Not only the dent. What else?
It broke.
Is this gonna work? That's completely ruined... What did that do? Nothing. Alright, so, let's say first idea is no good. Okay. So, second idea, poke a hole. We agreed that it's not gonna work, because it's gonna compromise. How many of you agree with that? It's gonna compromise the shape of the thing. Okay. Alright, the third idea. Alright. It's about a minute. Nothing's happening. Okay. Do you have any other suggestions? Who hasn't said anything? Sydney?
I think maybe you could like put it between your hands, because it might work the same as the lamp, but just faster.
Okay. So, how many agree that, looks like both of you, if I'm not mistaken, that you have to have some kind of heat, right? You said because?
I said because, like the water, it needs room to expand. Well, it's not actually expanding, but it needs room to move, so, the ball will probably expand.
Okay, I'm gonna show you this simulation. Is there something... Yes, Dylan.
Yeah, I want to add... Maybe it would work better under a stronger heat source.
 Okay, like a sun.
Yeah, like--
Okay. Can I tell you something that I did before the class? I put it under the lighter and the ping pong went like pshhh. You know, to be honest with you, the ash was big as this one. That was it. I was looking for ping pong ball. It'll burn. Alright, now, I want to show you this simulation again. Okay. So, bear with me here. You all said the two things I'm gonna talk about. You all said the molecules were expanding, meaning molecules are getting bigger, right? Tell me. Is this molecule getting bigger?
 No.
Okay, so molecules are not getting bigger. How many of you believe it's not getting bigger? Remember, simulation is evidence. Is that what is happening? Like many of you said already. Jake.
They're moving around really fast in the space. For air and water, they're vibrating.
So, look at the air this time. Alright. The air. So, class, which one would you say is moving faster?
 Air.
Okay. So, air is moving faster. Okay, we're gonna discuss this next step. So, everyone's gonna get a big picture. You have a question, I need to see the finger thing. Yes.
I have a, I guess, reason... Well, I have another thing that I noticed about that I guess, you could say. I think that the reason why the water molecules are moving slower is because the water is taking up space, and they can't travel around that fast because in the air, there's really nothing in there that's stopping them from moving. But I guess, you can compare it to us when we're swimming under water. We move slower than we normally do on land. Yeah.
 So, air molecules are moving really fast, right? So, what's happening as it's moving very fast? Sydney, you have something to add? Okay.
I was just gonna say, if you look at water, it sort of looks like it's in an invisible cage. And it's trying to move around, but it can't.
 So, it's restricted. It doesn't move as well.
