Okay. So if you're having trouble seeing it, you can go back in with a regular pencil brush. Visible enough for you? You can go back in and make it lighter. But right now, the mark makings you're doing is really good. As you want to turn, if you're having trouble making curved lines, you can turn--
Oh, okay. All right, that helps.
Instead of turning the tool, turn the plate and keep pulling towards you.
Okay.
It might make it a little bit easier to make those curves.
Yeah, they're really tough to do. Other than that, it's been fine.
Good.
Is that working now that you, what we talked about yesterday with this little...
Yeah.
...shadow?
I thought it was kind of--
Okay. And the same thing that I just told Kim, if you're having trouble with the curved lines, you can turn your plate and keep pulling towards you instead of using the tool to curve. All right, but so far what you're doing is good. You're adding all these different values. Continue with that type of texture on the edges because that's working.
I'm just going--
That's okay. Be patient. Have you decided yet how you're gonna treat this area in here?
No, I'm probably gonna do what you initially told me treating the light areas from start from this bottom half and doing--
Okay, so adding a different texture. Are you leaving the text?
I never... I forgot to reprint it so if I do decide...
You'll just have to reverse the text.
Yeah, I know, and I'll, right, add it in.
That's fine.
I think I'll just decide it later.
Yeah, finish your whole overall design first.
Yes, exactly.
And then if you want the text in it, as long as it's reversed so you print it the right way.
Yeah.
You can just reprint it. Okay, sounds good.
Awesome.
Yeah.
So you're just... 
 Yeah.
All right, the way you're doing the crosshatching here is really strong so continue that to make sure that it's consistent.
Do I have to make it identical?
No. Well, what do you think? Are these identical persons?
It's like supposed to be but I know I'm not gonna be able to get the exact family on the other side but I think it would look fine if it was different. I kinda want it to look a little messy.
You want there to be a little bit of a different expressive line on each one. I don't think there's anything wrong with making them separate. I know that they're trying to be echoing each other symmetrically.
Yeah.
But all of the textures can be different...
Okay.
...to add some interest to it.
I think it would be difficult to try to get the exact same thing on the other side.
Right. Don't you think that it might be more expressive to add different types of textures anyway?
Yeah, definitely.
That's good. How did you decide that you're going to treat the inside of the mouth area? Are you gonna leave that dark or do you want it to be light?
Well, there's supposed to be some tongue over here, but over here I'm gonna make it like... I'm gonna try to go solid black in some parts. Like I tried to do that inside the mouth.
Yeah! That's good. That's good.
I want mine to seem .
So then all of those areas then will stay dark?
Yeah.
It'll create a nice shadow. Excellent, that's really good. Are you gonna go off the edge?
Yeah.
Nice, that's really good. Keep it up. And Emily, how's yours coming? Yeah, the same thing. All those little dark areas that you're working on inside in between teeth, now that you've carved out all that area, it's gonna create a darkened tone. And as I mentioned before, all the different stippling areas, that's really good. It's adding some more dimension and more depth to the figure. If you're finding that it's easier for you to pull it off of your initial drawing, if you wanna get a white piece of paper to put underneath or use a separate sheet, it might be a little bit easier to see than using the table.
Okay.
Good, good. This is good.
I'm getting confused of where I'm going because if I did the backgrounds, this is the negative space that I do the crosshatching. Then it would have to continue down here.
So you want to decide all the different types of textures that you're using in between all of it.
Yeah.
All right, so you've got a little bit of the crosshatching here, okay, and you're using illustrative lines over here. So you wanna try and find something in between that's a little bit different. Right?
Uh-huh.
Well, you haven't done any stippling texture yet.
I was working on...
In here? Okay, so in here's gonna be stippling. So right, then this can't be the stippling because it's gonna be next to it.
I was thinking of here, kind of, moving this pattern down and then maybe just, sort of...
Okay, I think that would be a good solution to that.
It's like this area in the background.
Okay. Now what if you decided to leave it for now by following just some of the shadows that are there and creating textures just where these shadows are and then leaving that solid? And then you can make a test print to see if you like the way that looks keeping it solid. Then if you really feel that it needs to have more texture, you can go back into it and add it again.
Okay.
Okay, so in here, like you said, follow the movement of these objects. Okay, this is all the chain inside the bike. So following that movement with your line would make a nice gesture. And then in here just because you have all this texture in here, you might not need to put anything else there.
Okay.
What's your instinct as far as feeling how busy it is now to add extra?
Yeah, it's hard to tell because I'm not sure how it's gonna look when it's printed but I think that might be good. Because it would get kind of crazy. I think it might be nice to have--
And you wanna still have it have a focal point. So if you go crazy with other textures in here, you might be taking away from the focal point of your art work.
Okay.
I'm having a hard time seeing it so you--
I might need to get one of those blue sheets.
Okay. The blue sheets are working? I think, you know what? Emily's been using the table. So maybe that helps her to see her white lines. That has been helping. So if you don't wanna use one of those blue sheets, you can do what she's doing and use the table.
Yeah, I'll do that.
I think I wanna lift it off of the book.
So you can keep it taped to this and then flip the book out from underneath to use it or get a darker sheet of paper to help you see all your lines.
Okay.
Okay. You're still working on your design right?
Yeah.
I think you might be ready to go on to the plexiglass soon.
Yeah.
Because once you figure out what's going on over here...
Yeah, I just have to...
Yeah and all of this positive and negative space is really strong. So what are you deciding to do with all of the other areas? Are you gonna fill them in, too?
Yeah, I think so.
Okay, then did you decide what kind of texture that you wanna put in there when you start etching it, engraving it?
I don't know. I don't know if I should do really fine crosshatching.
Mm-hmm.
But then should I put a new texture on these?
What do you think? Do you want it to be solid or do you want to have the texture when you make the print?
Because I think if I texture both of them, it'll be a little confusing so maybe these should be plain and not have texture.
Okay, so you can texture crosshatching in the background and then if you make a test print first, you can decide. If they're too solid, then you can go back in with a different texture.
Okay.
Okay. So finish up the regular part of your design first and start working on the engraving part and then you can do a test print and decide if you want to add more later.
Okay.
