 Okay, so, write your conjectures down. Denominators are repeating. Actually, let's put this one on number four. Put it on number four. 
We got any even number that had any odd number. 
 Okay, so if it's an odd number in the denominator, it's repeating. If it's got an even number in the denominator?  Oh, okay, so you want to add to it not just say it's even. If it's odd over even --
It's terminating,
 It's terminating. and what if it's even over even?
Even over even? Two over six. It would one be one over three You'd have to simplify it.
 Okay, you'd have to simplify it, and so what would happen when you simplified 2/6 to 1/3?
It would be repeating.
 It would be repeating, so maybe you're on to something. Might want to record that. Let's check. That's good. I haven't heard that one before, guys. All right, let me here some of your conjectures. This group, we're going with their conjecture. What's your conjecture guys?
 That all odd denominator fractions will repeat.
All right, here's the conjecture. All odd numbers in the denominator will be repeating decimals. Anybody want to add to it? Take away from it? Change it? All right, what we got here, over here?
That's false because point two five goes into 100 4 times.
 Okay, hold on.
 I'm confused. Point two five. What is point two five represented as a fraction?
 1/4.
1/4, and they said all odd numbers are repeating.  So far it works.
 Well then 1/5.
All right, let's try 1/5. Well hold on then. Let's get all the conjectures before we start trying them out. I do love the action that you want to make up your own fractions and try it 'cause I don't think it's safe just to take it at a glance. All right, Dylan, what did y'all's group. George, share for your group. What did y'all say?  Listen guys.
We had two.
 You had two, okay.
Even over odd equals terminating.
 Even over odd is terminating, okay.
 And even over even is repeating.
 Even over even is repeating.
He meant two by that.
Okay, so basically, and then I would assume that odd over odd would go here? Okay, my only question is I see even over odd, odd over odd, even over even, what's the other option?
 Odd over even.
Odd over even, where do you think that would go? Do you think it would go terminating?
es.
Well, let's pick something really quick. 3/4. That's odd over even. That would be terminating. Okay, so opposites, even and odd, odd and even, you're thinking opposites --
Attract?
There you go. Opposites attract to be terminating, and when they're the same even and even and odd and odd. 
They repel.
Okay, and they repeat. Pretty good. Here's what I want you to do now. Based on what you just told me, look at number six. I've given you fractions. I want you, let's look at them as a group. I want to come to a consensus as a class. Do we all agree with this groups thinking? 
We didn't get to share ours because 8/9 repeat.
Okay, 8/9 is even over odd, and that repeats, so maybe we want to cancel this one out, and it's just odd over even? 
There might be something else. It might be that that doesn't go, necessarily, doing anything like the rules for divisibility like seven and eight, they don't have a rule because it just doesn't work, but it's right. It might be that that doesn't work.
Maybe if it's even a law, you just gotta work it out.
So do we want to make our rule this? If it's odd over eating. Eating? Is it time for lunch? If it's odd over even, it's terminating, everything else is repeating? 
We should test it out before.
3/4 is terminating, but 7/8 isn't terminating 'cause eight...
 7/8? Try it on your paper real quick. 7/8.
 It terminates.
 So do we want to use this?  No and yes, okay, let's --
Let's do more though.
 Let's do a democracy here, okay? If you're liking the, well hold on. Who says no? Who doesn't want to use this? Why?
Those rules may not work all the time for every fraction.
 Okay, so do you have a better rule or conjecture?  So far is it working?  Based on what we know and the numbers we've generated so far, let's use that rule to categorize the following fractions, and I think we could do this as a group. So here I've got, our rule we said we wanted to try was odd over even. Everything else is going in repeating. Odd over even. We've already done these, so here's our new fractions, okay? What is this fraction here?
 11/24
It's odd over even, so where do we want to put it?
 Terminating.
Terminating.
 Terminating
Odd over even, would make it terminating. Six what?
 Sevenths.
6/7?
 Repeating.
Even over odd terminates. 
But that didn't work. That didn't work.
We tried it, and we saw that it didn't work, remember? Yeah, odd over even is the only one we're going with, so I've got an odd over even. I got odd over odd.
Repeating.
And I've got an odd over even.
 Terminating.
Okay, so here's what I want you to do. Check it. Use your calculators as a group, check it. Circle, go ahead and write 'em down. Categorize them just like I did on the board. Write 'em in your chart and circle any that don't belong. 
 Use your calculator. 
It doesn't work. Odd over even.
 It doesn't work? Oh, no! Which one doesn't work? 
Seven over six doesn't work.
All right, let's do this then. The 6/7, were we correct there?  All right, this one's right.
No.
This one was repeating or terminating?
 Terminating.
All right, so this one, we need to move over here. All right, 5/13?
I haven't checked --
Haven't check that one.
Five divided by 13.
We don't know. Too many decimals.
 Okay, if it's too many, what do you think it's going to be?
 Repeating.
Probably going to be repeating, so that one looks good. Let's do this.  Hold on, I want you guys to try 11/24. I want you to do 15/14. I want you to check 199 over 200, and I want you all to check nine over 80. 
These rules already tested out.
That's terminating. 
The rules weren't tested enough to be proven.
 I think my rule is solid even though it's kind of condensed. 
 Five, four, three, two, one. Thank you. All right, 11/24? It stays? All right, it repeats, so it goes over here. All right, 15/14.
 Repeating.
 All right, let me change this though. Let's change this one to 15/24. Check that one. And while they're checking --
Point 625.
 Point 625, so it's actually going to terminate, okay? Repeating or terminating?
Terminating.
 It terminated? And nine over 80?
 Terminating.
 Terminating, okay, so it didn't work.
So odd over even doesn't work?
Right, it didn't work, so let's think about it then. We got a --
Do you know a rule?
I don't know, so I'm kind of doing this with you. Let's look at this. What is important? Do you think the numerator is important? Well, if the numerator's what's important?
I think they're evenly important.
They're evenly important?
Without one, the other wouldn't be the same fraction.
Do you agree? He said, "Without one, "the other wouldn't be the same fraction." What do you mean by that?
You said, "Which one's important?" If you say the numerator's important, then if you change the denominator it might not work, so they're not the same fraction without one another.
Okay.
If the numerator is one less than the denominator, then it will be repeating.
If the numerator is one less than the denominator? What about 5/13?
That's just one rule, there's multiple --
Right, well, I want to come up with just one rule that works for them all. So let's look at this. If the numerator is what's important, can we not look at these two fractions here? What do they both have in common? They both have a common denominator, and they have different numerators, and it's actually put 'em in two, separate categories, but they're both odd.
Prime number.
 Oh, you're seeing something about prime number? 
If it's prime over even it'll be repeating, but a prime over an even would be...
Okay, so we're gonna do prime over even is which one?
Repeating.
Prime over even is repeating.
Okay, because even number has what factor in it? Automatically?
Two.
A two, and will a prime number have two as a factor?  A prime number will have two as a factor? What are the factors of prime numbers?
 One and itself.
The only problem with that is the number what?
 Two.
Two, okay, so I think you're on to something.
If it's prime over even, then it'll be repeating.
 Prime over even, then it's repeating?
I found a problem with that.
Here's what I want you to do.
I did 11 over eight.
 11 over eight.
It's prime over even.
Okay, it is a mix number. It's not a mixed number, I'm sorry. It's a?
 Improper fraction.
What would it need to be a mixed number? 
A whole number.
 And a fractional part. Good job. All right, so here's my question then. Here's what I want you to do. Look up here, and I think with fractions we always seem to stress when we're doing equivalent fractions. To put a fraction in its what?
Simplest form.
Simplest form. Anytime there's a prime number it's already going to be in its simplest form, right? 'Cause you can't reduce it anymore, so these are already in their simplest forms. What about 15/24? Is there a factor that they both have in common?
Three.
Three, okay, so if I factor out three out of fifteen?
 Five.
I got a five.
 Eight.
So that's an equivalent fraction, so I'm going to get rid of that. Odd over even. So maybe we could say in a fraction's, what?
Simplest form.
 Simplest form. In a fraction's simplest form if it's odd over even, then it, what?
Terminates.
 Terminates.
So are we doing a rule that applies to every number?
 Every single number. So if we were to make a conjecture, do we just base it off of six numbers?
 No.
 What I want you to do is I want you as a group to come up with your own example that can either prove this or disprove this conjecture. The conjecture is that a fraction in its simplest form, if it's odd over even, will terminate. I want every group to make up their own, as a group make up your own example.
Let's do 7/6. 
 You make up your own, Buck. You make up your own. You got notebook paper if you want it.
I made it up, so can we do it again?
 No, I want a new one they haven't seen. 
So 5/6?
 5/6, okay. Try 5/6. Is it in simplest form?
Yes
 Okay.  And, so, it actually repeats.
It disproves the theory.
 So it disproves it, doesn't it?
