Take a look at that goal just to remind yourself whatever it is you're going to be working on. And this, we want to remind you that it's kind of dinner party conversation-ish. You agree with people at dinner parties. You disagree with people at dinner parties, but it's civil, because it's friends that you invited over to your house. You don't raise your, you don't raise your hand at dinner parties. You wait until, you wait until . You wait until someone else is finished speaking before you start speaking, of course, because that's polite dinner conversation. You add on to what one another says. But like I said, we don't necessarily have to agree. And then when the topic starts to die down at a dinner party, somebody else brings something else up. So you can raise your own questions as well. So the seminar is open, and my question to you guys is who you think is most to blame for the deaths that occurred at the end of "The Veldt."
What did it mean, like, George having, like, I think that, I know a lot of times, where he, especially in the, towards the back, he... it goes back a little ways. He's, like, talking a lot of things, like, comments turning, comment, commen-, I can't say that word. He says they're going to turn the house down possibly for a month, and how he pick out the picture painter. And he was telling his, he was, like, talking to his son a lot and, like, about not, about doing what his son would not want to have happen, and how he spoiled his children so much. So he takes out, there's a lot of things that his son, his son and daughter, it just doesn't say as much, wouldn't like, because... yeah. But he wasn't, like, he wasn't, like...
I agree that...
"Oh yeah, I'm gonna go die today!"
I agree that it was...
He didn't want to die.
I agree that it was...
Of course he didn't want to die. Who wants to die? Except for if you're suici-, you know, suicidal.
I agree that , and on Page 15, where it says, um, it's mostly on 16, but starts on Page 15. "Won't this house and this room replace you and your wife and your children's affections?" It assumes their mother and father grow more important in their lives than their real parents, and now you want to come along and shut it off? Kind of shows why that they hate them. And because it, because it's, since the nursery is their parents, it's like some guy who thinks he can tell you, coming along and can tell you to kill your parents, you know?
It's the same thing as they're doing, though. They're killing their parents.
Well...
But they think the nursery is their parents.
..they don't think their parents are their parents. They don't matter as much as parents.
If they'd been nice to them, and now they're going to turn everything off, then isn't it imbalanced? So now they're relying on the house, because that's what they've learned to do, as...
Yeah.
It'd be like, take an example, people are killing their parents.
And on Page 15, it says, like... I also think that it's, the dad says, "I sen-..." The psychologist says, "I sensed only that you had spoiled your children more than most, and now you're letting them die in some way." So if they, like, they don't really know, like, when someone says no to them, they've been spoiled so much they don't even, like...  well, they just can't take it. It makes them go all crazy and stuff. So they wanted to kill them, because they, like, couldn't fly to New York, so...
Yeah. Because I think 
And if their parents, and if their parents, and if they felt that their parents were actually their parents, then maybe not. But since their parents don't really take care of them, it's the house that takes care of them.
Yeah.
And then the...
The house and the room replaced their parents.
Yeah. Their parents and friends.
It's not like the parents could...
They don't have friends, because they're, the room, they get all these adventures because of the room.
Yeah.
They don't have friends.
And they kind of, like, rely on the house to give them stuff all the time.
If the house refused them, if it could, then I don't think that they would want to kill it. I think that it's just because they don't feel like their parents are actually their, they don't, they feel, their parents aren't important to them. So when they say no...
On page, on page 13, the mom's saying, "That sounds stressful. Would I have to tie my own shoes instead of letting the shoe tier do it? And brush my own teeth, and comb my hair, and give myself a bath?" The kid's, like, now relying on everything. He's never had to do something for himself. So he doesn't really, like, know.
Yeah.
He's gotten so, like, stuck on having everyone do things for him, he thinks, like, doing your own thing would be, like...
A challenge.
Yeah. Like, and I guess you can use an example as "Wall-E," a show. People get, like, so fat, and they rely on everything so much that, like, they have to move in chairs, and they, when you golf, it's virtual golf, there's a robot for you. So they just, they take robotics and machines to the next level, and they, it's all they rely on. And so many people don't have to work.
Yeah, and weren't the ones that, like, bought the house, that they were actually the cause, because they were the ones ... like, on Page 5 and 11, they even said that, "We were the ones who bought the house. We were the ones who got us into this mess." So, but then all of a sudden they just took it away from their children, which made them mad. So again, they were the one who was causing all this madness in the house.
I think it...
Like, don't you think that people would be sort of obese, like Elliot said?
Yeah. They would be.
They would be.
Yeah, but then they'd be like everyone else in the world.
But then they also...
Yeah, and...
Getting exercise?
But they're obese...
And also, I think that it's George Hadley's fault, not necessarily both the parents, because the mom didn't really do as much. Because, like, well, the quote over there it said that, like, she's the one who let them in for a minute. But. . .
She just wanted to be nice.
She just wanted to be nice. But I think ... like on Page two, it says, "But nothing's too good for our children," George said. So I don't think it's as much Lydia's fault, because she also tries to get them out of the house instead of just staying there. She just wanted to be nice to the kids because George had shut it off so abruptly. But I think it's more George's fault that they spoiled them, and that therefore gets himself killed.
Does anyone know when this story was written? Because I'm guessing it was...
1950.
All right. Because I was, I'm guessing it was wri- I was, guessing it was written when women weren't, like, thought of that highly. Because Wendy only actually speaks once, and is a sniveling idiot most of the time. And Lydia's, and Lydia Hadley is pretty passive. And it's the guys that are, have all the action, and have anything really going on.
Except in the final scene.
Well, yeah. But that... she on-...
She says one line. One line in the whole book, basically.
I know, but Lydia sort of has a bit of action.
Yeah, but...
She doesn't do much. She doesn't, like... . .
She's pretty passive.
She doesn't, like, um, disagree with her husband or her kids. She doesn't do anything like that. She just follows whatever her husband says. Maybe she has a few opinions, but not really.
And Wendy says four words alone in the whole thing, so...
Well, I mean, you hear her screaming, but other than that...
Is that a word?
Well, that was 
Unless she's saying it...
Close enough.
..at the same time as Peter, like, when they both come in and say, "Hello, mom and dad"...
Doesn't really count.
..or when they both say, "Mommy, daddy, come quick." But she's saying it at the same time. She only says four words by herself in the entire story.
The screams are actually their parents, when the kids were pretending in the nursery that their parents were being...
Yeah, they realized that at the end, but they didn't really make that very clear. They're like, suddenly they realized why those screams sounded familiar. I thought the whole book, or the whole story, that it was, like, the kids' screams. But it's actually the parents.
What are...
Yeah, because it's really not clear on that. I figured that it's actually so they all .
Well, I'm, it's more, it's nicer to have, like, a mystery, kind of.
Mm-hmm. Yeah. I figured that it's the author's fault.
The what?
The author's.
But...
How is it the author's fault?
Because it's his story.
Well, the author wrote it.
That doesn't make any sense.
But Carl, the author .
Yeah, that doesn't make much sense. It's not his fault. It's the... it's totally off topic.
Yeah, I agree with Elise. When I didn't really get who the screams were until the very end, where they said, yeah, that... I think it's on Page... um, 19. But, yeah, that they were... it says on Page screamed, and suddenly they realized why those screams had sounded so familiar." So I thought it was the kids the whole time, I thought...
Aaron was saying something before, but then everyone...
What I was going to say is the, a little while ago, when I was going to ask you, why do people think it's, like, Peter Hadley or other... because, I mean...
The other is both of them.
Because more or less the majority did George Hadley. So why, just those people who did that, why did they do that?
I understand with Peter Hadley, because it is his, he seems to have the main role of actually murdering the parents. But it's not his fault he got spoiled. He can't help it if his parents spoiled him.
Yeah, because...
Actually, even if the parents had been, played more of a parent role, they would still probably have preferred the nursery, because...
You don't need to .
..the parents could still say no, and the nursery does, they can, like, do whatever they want with it.
I agree with the both parents part of it, even though the mom wasn't as involved as George was, the mother was not do-, posing a part in the kids' life as being the mom, and the house was. So that caused them to think the house was their parents, and the house was their family.
This is... 
Indirectly... directly, I think...
You can go.
Directly, the, Peter was probably most responsible for the parents dying.
Directly.
Directly. But indirect... well, directly the lions were.
Oh my God.
Indirectly... but directly it was mostly Peter, but indirectly, it was, it was kind of everybody's fault.
I kind of agree with, like, both the parents, and then the dad. Because in the beginning, the parents are, like, slowly taking away some things, like the painter, and not letting them go to New York. And that kind of builds up their anger. But in the end, the dad just wants to shut it all off. And then the son starts getting really mad and, like, threatening them, finally they, like, get really mad, and then they start imagining the parents dying, and then...
They've been imagining the parents dying through the whole thing.
I think it was the parents' fault, and the inventor. Because, I mean, none of it would have happened if they wouldn't have had the, just, like, the super technology house, and the nursery.
So it's technology's fault.
It's not the inventor's fault, because he didn't know.
But it's not the, it's not the inventor's fault that they thought, though.
If he wouldn't have made it, it would have never happened.
And also, if the dad wouldn't have bought it, it would never happened, too. So that's my two opinions.
They couldn't...
But they bought it, but they made it and bought it to be a good thing, not a bad one.
No one invented it so that you would, so that it'd be used as a murder machine. They didn't just make it, like, on the advertisement, "Greatest Murder Machine Ever."
Perfect for murdering your parents.
We don't know, like, why he built it. Maybe it was because of that, but you don't know, like, exactly what his point of the invention was.
It was to, like, study the children's thoughts.
It was to study their minds.
Because the children...
He said that, but what if it's not?
He's a liar.
The children were mentally impaired, and they needed to be looked up on, and they wanted to know what they were thinking, so ...
So a psychologist .
Another good quote to show that it was, to show that it might have, that it could have been the parents' fault, was that, on Page 11, it said... yeah, George said, "Who was it that... who was it said, 'Children are carpets. They should be stepped on occasionally.'" Because the parents didn't, they didn't do anything to the kids. They...
They didn't really step on them that much until the end.
They just did what they want.
They just all of a sudden just, like, flattened them.
Yeah, they just did it so abruptly.
Yeah, they just started and let it go.
It was just like, bam, you're dead.
No wonder they wanted them dead.
Guys, let's try and talk one person at a time, or else we can't hear.
My turn. Okay. On Page 15, it says that the dad went from Santa, Santa to Scrooge. And, like, if he would have taken away, like, one thing at a time over a period of time, I don't think the kids would be, like, like, killing them. But it says he just took all the good stuff away at once, and they got, like, really mad.
That's also kind of dangerous, though. Because they started getting mad at him as soon as they took away the picture painter. So it was, they still could've gotten mad. It's also more dangerous for the parents to actually slowly take them away, because they get more and more mad.
All the anger...
I have another opinion that I was trying to say, but then I let Fiona go first. That's not fair.
No, that's not, it's my fault. 
All the anger built up because...
Anyway, um...
