 Okay guys, good morning and welcome to class today. We're going to continue our discussion on energy, but we're going to extend it to cover some new points that we haven't talked about yet. So what I'd like for you to do first before we get started with out discussion is look at the big idea, the big idea for just a moment. So the big idea that we're going to talk about today is how do you think the sun is going to help you shoot the stretchy lizard across the table? So everybody's got their little stretchy lizard. Without shooting them, we're not doing anything with them yet, I'd like for you to talk in your table group and see if you can come up with a big idea. I'm going to give you and then we'll just go around and see what you think. Okay, so 30 seconds to think about what's the big idea.   Do you know who your spokesperson is going to be?
  
 Alright guys, it's been 30 seconds. I'm going to go to each table. If you could just have your spokesperson ready, you could just tell me what your big idea is. We're going to put it up here and we're going to come back to it at the end of class and see how we've done. Alright, so how about we'll start with you guys back here since there's just two of you. Alright, what do you think? Shawn, are you going to speak?
 The sun would warm up the lizard and make it go across the table.
 Okay, so the sun might warm up the lizard. I just put L for lizard, that's alright, and make it go across the table. Robert, how about your table, who's your spokesperson going to be?
 The energy from the sun, once it shines on the lizard it would give the lizard energy.
 Okay, the energy from the sun will shine on the lizard. Right, is that okay? Who's your spokesperson?
 We said that the sun might make the lizard melt and make it sticky and then maybe it would shoot across the table.
 Okay, so it might make it melt and sticky and that'll make it shoot across the table. Is that what you said? Alright, Kendrick who's your spokesperson going to be?
 Blaire
 It was unanimous. Alright, Blaire, what do you guys have?
 We were going to say things like the other people said that like the energy from the sun is going...
 Is going to do what?
 Like the energy from the sun would like shine on the lizard and it's going to make it jump
 Okay. Shine and make it jump. Nicole, did you guys decide who your spokesperson's going to be?
 Arrington.
 Arrington.
 The sun would gives energy to the lizard to help it sling.
 Okay, so the sun gives energy and I didn't hear the last part. You want to tell me?
 That helps it.
 That helps it, okay. And last but not least, Jada?
 We think that the sun give heat to the  and make it more elastic so it would stretch.
 Okay, so the sun would give heat to make it more elastic? I'm sorry, what was the last part again?
 Like make it more elastic so it will stretch more.
 So it'll stretch farther, good. Alright, so what I'd like to do now is I'd like to just kind of recall some of the things that we might already know about energy. So if I call your number, I would like you to think about what do you know about, let's start with potential energy. What do you know about potential energy? So if I call your number just tell me one factor, one thing that you know about it or an example of it. Alright, we'll start with 15.
 When an object is like still, it doesn't move, it's holding it in.
 Okay, still, doesn't move, it's holding it in. How about number eight? Robert. Something you know about potential energy or an example of it.
 The lizards.
 Alright, very good. When the lizard is still? When it's moving, what do you think?
 Still?
 Alright, very good.
 It's stored energy.
 Alright, it's stored energy and I'll do one more, number two. Potential energy. An example or something that you remember about it.
 The pencil is still.
 The pencil is still. Alright, very good. Now I know we haven't talked about these topics too much yet, but I know from your pretest you guys had a lot of background knowledge on it. Okay, the next thing I'd like to know is what do you know, what examples do you have, what can you remember about kinetic energy. So we talked about potential. Now I'd like to know a couple things that you might know about kinetic energy. Alright, so if I call your number let me know what you think. Number 20?
 A car moving.
 A car moving. Alright, number 13.
 A paint can being dropped.
 A paint can being dropped, alright, very good. Number 14.
 When you push a pencil and it rolls.
 Alright, when you push a pencil and it rolls, very good. And how about number seven, we'll do one more.
 Like the energy of motion,  like the .
 The energy of motion?
 Yeah.
 Thanks. Alright, and if I didn't call your number and you want to contribute about either potential or kinetic. Anybody have anything else to add about it? Dylan?
 Kinetic is when like the stored energy from the potential energy leaks all out and it starts pulling.
 Alright, very good and that's a great way to start into the next part, what we're going to use the lizards for today. Alright, so what I would like to know from you guys, is everybody has a bucket on their table, right?
 Um-hum, yeah.
-Teacher] Okay. And you can raise your hand for this part: how can you, from your seat, how can you make the stretchy lizard get into the bucket? Anthony.
 Shoot it.
 You can shoot it.
 You can just toss it in.
 You can just toss it in there.
 You could pull its tail.
 You could pull its tail and stretch it.
 You could drop it in there.
 You could just drop it in there. It's not too far away. Anybody else? Okay, how about, and I'm not asking for a demonstration yet, we'll get to demonstration, I promise. How about if I asked you guys, instead of in the bucket at your table, how could you get it into a bucket at your neighbor's table? At your neighbor's table? Javious, what do you think?
 You could toss it.
 You could toss it. Arrington.
 You could sling it.
 You could sling it. Wilson. That was your idea? Alright.
 Walk over there and put it in it.
 Yeah that's true. I didn't say you had to stay in your seat did I? You could walk over there and just put it in. Gavin.
 You could like throw it.
 You might throw it. Is that what you were going to say Dana? Alright.
 Shoot it.
 You could shoot it, alright, very good.
 You could bend it back.
 Yep, you could bend it back and shoot, very good. How about if I asked you to shoot it from one side of the room to the other? Jade, I'll start with you.
 Sling it.
 You could sling it. Lewis.
 Like you said, you could shoot it.
 Yeah, you could shoot it. Anthony.
 You could throw it.
 You could throw it. So we're kind of hearing the same things, right? We're kind of hearing-- Go ahead.
 You could walk over and drop it.
 You could walk over and drop it. I didn't say you had to stay in your seat. Alright. What would be the difference, though, between the bucket at your table, the bucket your neighbor's table, shooting it across the room, going out on the football field and going for distance? What would be the difference between what you did? What difference would you have between this bucket here, the bucket at your neighbor's table and so forth? John, what do you think?
 The amount of energy you're putting into it.
 Can you just show me without actually shooting it, for example?
 Like if you're trying to get it into this bucket, I only have to go like this or drop it in there. If I were trying to send it across the room I'd have to really stretch it out.
 Okay.
 The distance away from the bucket.
 Okay, so what would you do differently to make it go a different distance?
 Stretch it more.
 I might stretch it further, is that what you two were going to say?
 The more potential energy or kinetic energy it has.
 The more potential energy, the more kinetic energy it has? So when you talk about the lizard, what do you mean when you say the potential energy that it has? How's it getting potential energy? What does that mean?
 Before you sling it, it's just sitting there-- .
 Alright, so when it's just sitting there it's potential. What about when you stretch it, what do you think that is?
 Kinetic.
 Okay, have you let it go yet?
 No.
 Alright, so we'll think about that for a little bit. What I'd like for you guys to do is talk to your neighbors at your table, or if you don't like what they have to say, you can think about it on your own. I'd like for you to make a hypothesis and I'd like for your hypothesis to start with "I think" and then think about what we just said about how you would get the lizard in the bucket at your table versus your neighbor's table. What do you think you would do differently? "I think if I", do what to the lizard it's going to go in the bucket at my table versus the one at the next table. So make a hypothesis about how you could test how can you get the lizard in that bucket versus the next one.
 By slinging it.
 Yeah, talk amongst yourselves and see what you guys think. Alright, I'll give you 
 But then compare it to the next table as well. What would you have to do differently to the lizard to get it in this bucket versus the next one? That's what I want you to do. Okay, alright. So let me just have... Let's hear one table. Gavin, I kind of liked what I was hearing from yours. Ready guys? Gavin, I liked what I was hearing from your table when I was walking around. Tell me what you guys came up with for a hypothesis.
 That if you were shooting it at your table you'd only pull back a little bit, but if you're shooting it across to another person's table, you'd have to pull it back farther.
 Okay, any other table have a similar hypothesis? So their hypothesis then was if they want to shoot it into the bucket at their table, and correct me if I'm wrong, they'd only have to stretch it a little bit, but if they wanted to shoot it at their neighbor's table, they'd have to stretch it further. Did anybody have a similar hypothesis to that? You guys did. How about you guys, what did you say Nicole?
 We said that maybe we'd have to aim our trajectory much different that we would between tables.
 Okay, so not only the amount of stretch, but also the trajectory of how you aim it. Alright, very good. How about you guys over there?
 You'd have to really aim and focus on how much power you put into it.
 Alright, very good. And I know you guys were coming up with the same thing. So we're going to do an experiment in just a minute to test that hypothesis about the amount of stretch. Is the amount of stretch related to how far your lizard can fly? Okay, so if that's your hypothesis, I think the amount of stretch that I give the lizard will make it fly a different length, what would the manipulated variable be? What would the thing be that you change between the different steps? Anthony.
 How far you pull it back.
 How far you pull it back, very good. How far you pull it or can I put stretch also? Good. What would our dependent variable be? What are you going to watch for? How do you know if that stretch has made a difference? Jada?
 
 Alright, very good and where else might it go?
 
 Right, but you're talking about your bucket and you're also talking about--
 
 Very good. So we're talking about--
 Distance.
 Alright, so can I put that down for the dependent?
 Yes.
 Okay, good. How about some constants. What are some things that have to stay the same? Guys, don't let that table do all the work, come on now. Alright, Ada.
 The type of lizard.
 The type of lizard, very good. Would it be fair if I gave one table battery powered and the other table not, right? Alright, very good. Sierra, what else?
 The size and shape of it.
 Size and shape of it, very good. Anything else that has to stay constant or the same?
 How big is the container.
 Alright, very good. How big is the container. Wilson?
 How stretchy it is.
 Okay, how stretchy it is. Alright, I'm going to give you 30 seconds and what I would like for you to do with those 30 seconds, is I'd like for you to practice. Alright, I'd like for you to practice at this point just at your table. If you want to practice on moving the bucket to one end and you guys try from the other end, that's fine, but I would like for you guys to control the lizards so they stay at your area, okay. Alright, go ahead. Without hitting your neighbor. Maybe move to the side, Kendra. Go ahead and practice and see the amount of stretch you give the lizard makes a difference. Gavin. 
 See if you have some information when you're done besides that it sticks to your neighbor's head. Alright, hold on and we'll try it again. I promise we'll try it again  at further distances in just a minute. Let's think guys. Can anyone make a conclusion that starts with: "When I change the amount of stretch..."? Can anyone make a conclusion that starts-- Good job. Nicole.
 When I change the amount of stretch... If I change the amount of stretch far then it goes further.
 Okay, if I change the amount of stretch when I make it further, it goes further? Alright, Lewis.
 You might plan for it to go one way, but the way that you shoot it really, it doesn't exactly go where you plan. It's all over the place.
 But if we just focus back to the amount of stretch and the distance--
