What I'm going to do is we are going to use these projects to help students at our school. Mrs. Ess's class is not the only class that has had problems with students accidentally plagiarizing. And that was the original reason that you guys came here today: because somebody in another class had plagiarized something accidentally in Mrs. Ess's class. Your projects today are going to be used in other classrooms. So we're going to have a contest. We're going to pick the 5 best Powerpoints, and we're going to send them out to other classrooms to help students learn why they shouldn't plagiarize. Now some of you are already experts at Powerpoint. We're not learning how to do Powerpoint right now. A lot of you already know how to summarize because you learned to summarize in Mrs. Ess's class. So you have that experience. There was a disconnect where you didn't put the two together. So what we're doing right now is we're saying, okay, I know how to summarize; now I know how to avoid plagiarism. So let's start working right now. You have your rubric. Look at your rubric. If you have a question, raise your hand and I'll come and explain it. And we're going to start right this very second. So go ahead and get into Powerpoint, and do your powerpoint. If you're going to be doing something different, like making a newspaper, a brochure, or maybe a podcast then you're going to start working on that. And I am just going to walk around you guys. Our focus is plagiarism, and the way we avoid plagiarism is through focusing on summarizing. So you can refer back to your notes. Remember you used your Cornell notes the other day when you were here and we went online, and you took a summarization quiz and tutoring session? I'll be right there in a second. Yes? I'm sorry?  Okay, David? Yes, yes absolutely.  I'm sorry, I'll be back to you in a moment. Yes?

I think that would be a great idea. We're focusing on plagiarism and we've learned about how summarization is one of the ways to avoid it. Right? Okay. I'm sorry. Sure. Very good. Oh, great, you're back up. Okay, tissues are behind the globe. Can you go get one for me? Okay, have you been helped? You have to know how to spell it. Right over there on the board.  How's it going Cathy?
Pretty much.
Take off the S. I like that though. It was good. You need some help Mr. Phillip?
No thank you.
You're fine? What you're doing is looking through here at all the requirements. So when you use your creativity to put this together, And I, yes?
what does this word mean?
Okay. So, multimedia basically means that it could be either Powerpoint or a podcast. So you need all of these to get the highest grade. So if you come up with something additional, you're going to get a higher grade. This part you did here is basically your method of memorization which would be number 3. How is it going?
Pretty good.
Now remember if you're taking a definition of plagiarism from a website, then you really need to say where you got that. There's a way of doing that. You're going to state where you got that, and when it was, yes?

That's okay. You're going to use your own words. It's interesting how different all of these look. Yes, you can. You definitely can. I also have some books available. They're hiding. You could, Eric, use this book too. I've got you marked right here. Would anyone else like a dictionary? You can get an online definition too. Okay I've got them marked. You can find it easily that way.
Can we use our paper to take notes?
Yes, of course you can. If that would help you, Cathy. Have you gotten to Powerpoint yet? No? Do you know how to do that? Oh, good. Okay, David. I'm sorry. I've got it in this book too.  Is that your second slide or your first slide?
My first.
Okay. Okay, like I said before, the purpose of doing this is to try to help other students in our school. And a lot of you already know ways of avoiding plagiarism. Maybe you were even aware that you were plagiarizing. And we've been focusing on summarizing. Of course, there's another way you can do it. Paraphrasing is a little bit harder, but we're focusing on summarizing. And besides summarizing, another thing that you can do, with summarizing, is still giving credit to where it came from. Yes? Hang on.
