In my opinion I think the grandpa shows the most leadership because he stands up for himself, telling the principal, "I should not pay $15.00 because then it wouldn't be a scholarship."
 Okay, thank you very much. I like the way the way you show, you know, how much he pays for one day and not have to pay for the scholarship jacket. Thank you very much.
I agree with Julia, because you should not choose people for, like, what kind of races they are or their culture. You should choose them for what they've been through like their hardest work or something.
 Okay. So you mean they had jobs, they had work it was right to feel that. Very good, good job. Okay.
I think Martha because she earned the jacket instead of buying it.
 Okay.
In my opinion the grandpa showed the greatest leadership because he was wise, and a great leader is wise.
 Okay.
I agree with Alejandro that the grandfather is the leader because he didn't pay for the jacket.
 He didn't pay for the jacket. So you thought because he didn't pay for the jacket then he's a great leader. You think you know just because he did not pay for the jacket that's what made him a great leader.
No, I think that what makes him a great leader is that he stood up for himself instead of just saying, oh, okay, here's the money.
 Okay, so a greater leader should stand for what he believes. Is that what you are saying?
Yes.
 Very good. Thank you very much for clarifying that. Go ahead, Daniel.
I was going to say that I agree with Jennifer. I think that a great leader should stand up for what they believe.
 Thank you very much. Go ahead.
In my opinion, I think Martha showed the greatest leadership because she showed wisdom because she earned that jacket by getting straight As and being a good student.
 All right. Thank you. Go ahead, Lisette.
In my opinion, Martha's grandpa is a great leader because a leader needs to be a strong person like Martha's grandpa.
 Very good. So you need to stand your ground. Very good.
I think that the person who showed the most leadership was Martha. Even though she thought she was going to lose what she had earned, she believed that even though the teachers, they, they, some wanted to give it to someone else, but some knew that she had earned it and she, she spoke up, not keeping it quiet and keeping it to herself.
 Okay. So you feel a great leader, you know, she speak up, you know, when something is wrong or in the way.
She shouldn't just keep it.
 Very good.
She has to tell someone.
 Very good, good job. Go ahead.
It seems to me that Martha showed great leadership because she did all the things that she did so she could win the jacket.
 Okay, what are some of the other things, you know, that Martha did.
She got, she got, since she was in first grade she got good grades and she tried not to get in trouble, and be a good student.
 Okay, so that means, you know, she has worked hard all this time. Very good. Thank you. Okay, go ahead.
I believe that Martha showed very good leadership because she wanted the scholarship jacket so bad that she didn't give up on trying to get it.
 So a good leader, you know, she'll try to do whatever it takes, you know, to get what he or she wants. Is that what you're saying?
Yes.
 All right. Good job. Thank you.
In my opinion I think Mr. Schmidt is a great leader because he was fair, you know, to fight for Martha and not the other girl.
 Thank you. Who is the other girl?
 Joanne.
 Huh?
 Joanne.
 Okay, so Mr. Schmidt was fair enough, you know, to fight for Martha instead of who?
 Joanne.
 Joanne. Thank you very much.
In my opinion it's Martha because she fight for the jacket and she tried her best.
 All right.
In my opinion I think Mr. Smith because even though Martha was poor he still said that she deserved the sweater because of her good grades.
 Because of her good grades. Good job.
In my opinion I believe that the one that showed leadership was Mr. Smith because he was honest and fair to Martha.
 Very, very good. Thank you very much.
I agree with her because Mr. Booney just wanted the person that had money, which is Joanne. Her father owned the only store in town. So, Mr. Schmidt was actually being fair.
 Okay. Thank you for adding on to that. Now who is Joanne's dad? You know, because everybody was saying I could hear Juan, you know, when Juan said because of Joanne's dad. Who is Joanne's dad? How can we describe him?
He owns the only store in town.
 Hmm?
He owns the only store in town.
He owns the only store in town. What else?
He's also part of the school board.
He's rich.
School board.
 Huh?
He's part of the school board so they had the decisions like, in the school, like, what they do and stuff.
inaudible] 
n the story he gives money to the  school so maybe that's also why they wanted to pick Joanne so they got more money.
inaudible]
 Very good. Thank you very much. Now that everybody has contributed, now let's look at the next question. The next question is this: what does Martha represent to you? Think about the leadership qualities that Martha showed. What does Martha represent to you? Not only the leadership qualities, all the other things that Martha represents, okay? Anybody can start. Anybody can start. Just jump in.
I believe that Martha to me represents a great leader. Her experience and triumph illustrate importance in leadership such as never giving up.
 Thank you for sharing that.
She represents someone who will find the truth and will solve it. She stood up for herself and she listened to what her grandfather had to say.
 Very good.
It seems to me that she was a smart and outgoing girl because she worked hard and speaked up and no matter how you look or where you live you have to be treated fairly.
 Great. Like that. Anybody can jump in.
It seems to me that Martha is not a leader because her grandpa speaked up for her about the scholarship jacket.
I disagree because Martha did speak up for herself. Her grandfather just told her what to say.
I disagree because like, her grandfather gave her most of her ideas. If it wasn't for her grandfather she probably would've tried to get the money. But like her father said, I mean her grandfather said that a scholarship is not a scholarship unless you pay for it.
I agree with Daniel because like, well yeah, I agree with Arkie because the grandfather actually had to tell the principal that they shouldn't have to pay for it instead of Martha going to speak to the principal in person.
I disagree with that.
I disagree with that.
I disagree.
I disagree with Daniel and Javier because even though her grandpa told her what to say, her grandpa didn't go up to the principal and actually tell it was actually Martha who went up to the principal and got ideas of what to say.
I agree with Myra because it's true. I mean he didn't go, Martha actually had the guts to say what her grandfather had said. So that's why I say that Martha had most of the guts to do that instead of the grandfather. The grandfather might've said that, but she was the one that stood there and said it. That took a lot of courage to me.
 Okay. So you know that was a great leader should be courageous enough. So I like what Arkie said, Arkie said, you know, I disagree that Martha was a leader and Arkie open up that. Thank you very much, Archimedes. Thank you all of you for sharing that. Any other person?
To me Martha represents a hard worker because since first grade she worked hard to get her good grades and not get in trouble.
 Okay. She worked really hard. Thank you. Any other person that wanted to add something?
It seems to me that Martha is a  that proves that it doesn't matter her race or color, she could do anything the same as anybody else can do.
 Wow.
I agree with Ashley because a lot of people discriminate, like Mexican people or like Mexican Americans, just because their family or their ancestors came from somewhere else and they're not from the United States.
 So you know what has Martha done to straighten that or to disprove that?
She showed that who cares where you're from or who you are, you can always do your best.
 Okay. So you know there was, Martha is representing to us that we can do whatever we put our mind in doing. If we really work hard we know that it will work. Is that what I'm hearing from all of you?
 Yes.
 That it doesn't matter what race, you know, if you work really hard you know that you can achieve. Thank you very much for sharing that.
I really admire her because I know some people who have been made fun of just because of their race and it's somewhat sad because some people aren't allowed to do things just because of their skin color or where they're from. What I think is that it doesn't matter what you are. No one is bad except for the person who's making fun of your race. You are not the bad one, it's the person who's making fun of you.
 Thank you very much. Any other person that wants to add something to this?
I agree 

because in a poem it says you can't persuade anyone unless you have the courage to make them, like, persuade them.
 Thank you very much. Now let's go on to the last question. Thank you very much for sharing. I could hear from all of you. The last question is what other stories have you read that share a similar theme with Scholarship Jacket. Think of other characters that have faced difficult choices or situations. Okay? So think of that. What other stories have you read, okay? Anyone can start.
I think Crossing the Wire is somewhat similar because Pablo was Mexican, too, and they mistreated him and denied him a job. However, he worked as hard as Martha.
 Thank you for sharing that. You call that Crossing what?
Crossing the Wire.
 Crossing the Wire. Thank you.
I think the story of Martin Luther King is pretty similar to The Scholarship Jacket because they discriminated a lot against African-Americans because of their color, but Martin Luther King stood up for his race and said that we should not discriminate others because we're different. We're all the same just because of color doesn't separate us.
 Thank you very much for sharing that.
I agree with Jennifer, Martin Luther King said that it doesn't matter where you're from or who you are, everybody inside is the same and all of us are brothers.
 Thank you very much for sharing that.
I have seem the movie The Blind Side which is pretty similar to the story. Michael shows great leadership because he is an African-American and he is poor and he tries to pull himself up to be able to play at a Catholic school to play football.
 Thank you.
I agree with Carlos. I've also seen that movie and the movie has a lot of great leaders definitely Michael.
I agree with Carlos because in that movie, Michael, from the beginning he didn't want to go to school, he actually had really low grades and the family he had, they're from another race, and even though he had really low scores, they got him a tutor and they helped him, like, reach his goals so he could play football for the school he wanted to play.
 Wow. Thanks again.
I have read The Outsiders, which is a story about two classes of people, the Greasers and the Soches. The greasers get treated real dirty because of their lower class.
 Okay. At the end what happened? Did they succeed like Martha? Did they achieve?
Some of them died.
 Some of them died, okay.
