Okay, so ready to go here? Okay. I'd like to take you back to the fifth century. To a time when Attila the Hun was uniting the barbarian tribes and he was leading his great dark horde to conquer the lands of Gaul, or Western Europe, much to the chagrin of the Roman Empire. "But where," I hear you ask "Is Attila the Hun himself?" Well, I fear he has perished. He died in a drunken brawl, would you believe on his wedding night? And who am I, I hear you ask, to be telling such a tale? Why, I am Mrs. Attila the Hun and it has been left to me to guide the dark horde as we continue to conquer the lands of Gaul. Javelins, and bows and arrows, those were very well and good for tacticians such as Attila the Hun, but what do I know about tactics?
 Not much.
So I need something--
 Very little, you are right! Josh the Hun is right! So, what I need is to get some sort of a war machine. Now, let's first think about what characteristics do I need in a weapon that would help us against-- to help us conquer the lands of Gaul. What characteristics do we need in the weapon? What do we need it to do?
 Hurt people.
In other words we need to have some sort of damage at the end of property or
 Force.
something else. So, a force, we need to have some sort of force.
Range.
What else, I'm sorry, Jackie?
Range.
Range, the range would be a good thing, especially if we can get beyond bow range, right? That would help out to get some of the castle walls destroyed before we even get far, right?
Steph.
 Efficiency? Efficiency, can you tell me more about what you're thinking?
 Well, being able to complete said task without much power used in maneuvering?
All right, we need to be able to move the machine around to be able to get the job done. We need to be able to not, perhaps, use every single Hun for it. So efficiency in being able to load it and being able to use it. Anything else that we need in a weapon to help us in our destroying and pillaging of towns and villages? Yes, Katie.
 Possibly something that you could use again?
 Oh yes, if we only use it once that's kind of a problem, isn't it? We want to be able to use it repeatedly. Good idea. Other things we want to think about? Joe.
 Something that's mobile.
 All right, so maybe wheels might help, or being able to be something that could be lifted or carried. Okay, those are good thoughts. Jackie.
 Accessibility, like making sure it's easy to use and not like difficult to set up?
 So if it takes a bunch of people and they're struggling to reset it, maybe not a good idea. Something that perhaps a few people might be able to handle. All right so we've had a good deal of ideas so far. That's really good. So, I need some sort of a war machine. Something that would have all of those properties in it. Hmmm, why, what is this?
 Message for you Mrs. The Hun.
 A message, okay, let's see. Why, it is news of a new siege engine called a trebuchet.
 Ooh.
We have a picture of our new war weapon, but here's the challenge: I need to build the best trebuchet, the best war machine that I can and I'm not certain what properties, what characteristics, what parts of this machine, I should emphasize. How big they should be, how strong they should be. So I'm going to need you to help me out. I'm going to make little groups of Huns in order to create a model of our trebuchet. Each group can then test a different quality. What sorts of things could we change to test our trebuchet, to see what would be the best one? Caroline.
[Caroline} The weight on the opposite end?
 All right, the weight, the counter weight and the load. Both of those things, and perhaps the ratio of them, could be rather important. Josh.
 Like the ratio of the arm on either side of the axle.
 All right, the lever arm and how it changes, that could be an important idea. Other things that we might be able to change, to vary or test? Anything else we might be thinking of? Kate.
On the angle, right there.
Ah yes, the angle and the angle of launch has a lot to do with. There's a little pin that holds the sling in position until the lever arm releases it. So the angle of launch and changing that could be important. Anything else we might try? Anything else we could change? We've had some really good ideas. All right, so I'd like to break you into your small groups and I'd like you to decide on what exactly your group is going to test. We'll come back together in several days in order to share the ideas and information. So I need you to prove your loyalty me, Huns. Build this trebuchet and test it and if Attila the Hun were here right now, he'd say, "What are you doing laying your duffs?" "Get to work, Huns!" Let's get into our small groups and see what you can decide on for your trebuchet.  And you can choose whatever it is that interests you. You can choose something that we did or something different. But what you want to remember is that you have to decide what to do before any work. You have to decide "I'm going to change this part of it" "and keep everything the same" until we take data.  Remind me, first of all, what it was you were changing.
 Counterweight.
 Counterweight, so you're leaving the same object that you're launching?
 We're just changing counterweight.
So, what, is that your weight?
Yes.
 Okay, so what challenges did you have, if any, in building this to test your counterweight?
We had problems with the sling and the pouch. Like, at first we made it really long, so like, that didn't really work. It didn't go anywhere, it kind of just fell apart and then the pouch itself, it's kind of like too long. So like it--
So a little engineering before you could quite get one to work, but you did then eventually get one by changing the-- shortening the string and shortening the sling?
Yeah.
All right. So, at that point then, it looks like you had some data and you took several trials. Was there anything, just off the end, any pattern you happened to notice, just as you were taking the data?
We noticed that if the counterweight was too heavy, it would just kind of smack down and then if it was too light it would just of like, it would float and then just kind of fall. So there is an ideal weight to counterweight that would make it ...
Yeah, like, our data, we went from light to heavy and then it went from like not so far to like, really far, to like back again.
What if I wanted to know, not 600 grams or 650, but 625? How could you analyze your data to allow me to interpolate between your data points or to go beyond, if I wanted to know what's going to happen at 775?
 Make a graph or an equation.
Yeah.
 Actually, either of those would work, coming up with an equation or coming up with a graph. To me the graph is a very visual way of doing it. You could determine then whether or not it is a parabola or whether it's some other sort of a curve. All right and that will allow us to look at other data points which I think would be very helpful. So, your job then, between now and Wednesday, is to come up with how you want to analyze this so that you can explain what the results were, from your trebuchet, without sharing all of the numbers, but just by giving the ideas of what it is you found. I think this is actually very fascinating that you found your limit and then it comes back down. I think that's very interesting, the fact that it's consistent. So, help everyone else figure out what would be the ideal conditions according to your data.
 Okay.
All right.
 We can do that.
 Hello!
 Ready to share trebuchet.
Here's our data.
Okay, so first remind me what it was that you were changing or testing.
 We were looking for the angle.
 The angle, okay, and when you were trying to build your trebuchet, what challenges, if any, did you have in trying to test this angle?
Well, when we were doing it, we tried to make the arm in a way that it would be really easily changeable. So it couldn't be like super secure. It had to be-- we ended up doing it with rubber bands and like popsicle sticks, so it was really easy to move.
 Okay.
 It wasn't a super intense trebuchet, but it works.
Yeah, we built the whole thing out of popcicle sticks.
Now, I'm not certain they had popcicle sticks back in the fifth century, but I think . . .
No, like twigs.
 Twigs!
We'll do it with twigs, that's a good idea. Alright, so, then it looks like you took some data at different angles, and you figured out then the range that it went. Was there any pattern or anything that you noticed while you were taking the data? It's okay to say no.
Yeah, we noticed you'd want to start it like farther back, like there'd be really no reason for you to start it at a positive degree angle.
Right.
Because then it's--
Because if it was positive it wouldn't really go anywhere.
Starting with angles that made sense, that you knew would give you enough energy to start it. All right, and then what did you discover about the angles that you did try?
That the farther back you went, the greater length that it would go.
So the very farthest that you took it back did get the longest range.
Yes, that was the negative 45 and that was the largest one.
Now, what limited you, or was there a limit? You stopped at negative 45, could you have gone negative 50 or--
No, that was when we hit the ground because ours was so small. It wasn't like high up to go all the way back.
Ah, okay, all right, You were commenting on being high up. When we get together on Wednesday and we talk about conclusions, we'll also ask about what could we try in the future and that sounds like another something that you could potentially do. Where if you took the same model,
but just lift it up?
Lifted it up, adapted it, see if that would matter. All right that sounds good. So we've got several angles to comment on. If I wanted to make a guess as to what would happen at 35 degrees, or negative 35, or at negative 50, is there some way I could interpolate between data points or extrapolate beyond? Is there some way that you could analyze your data that might allow me to choose a different angle than the ones you actually chose?
Yeah, you could probably think of an average, you wouldn't assume that it would be like 100% accurate, we wouldn't guarantee that, but it would give a good idea.
 All right so if you did some averaging work, if you did some, been thinking of--
Actually, not so much averaging.
You could even set it up like ...
Like side by side, like triangles.
Okay, okay. So, figuring out, maybe the ratios.
Yeah, that's --
That you should get here, using your, when you say your size and dimensions. All right, and that is an analysis that is so legitimate. These are equations you can come up with. You do have the option of doing it visually, that is with a graph. Where you have your angles one direction, and your range the other. Just see what would happen now with just the three data points you have so far. You may find that there isn't enough data to be for certain of what would happen but you're certainly welcome to attempt that in case there is a direct linear relationship or something that's easily recognizable. So you get to choose however you want to analyze your data. When we come together on Wednesday, I will ask you to come up with a conclusion if there is one. Some groups will find that there's no conclusion that the  So that everyone else could know what the results were without looking at actual data numbers. So that's your job for Wednesday, and any other potential questions or things that you might consider for the future if you were to do another test. Also a bonus that we can measure data.
Okay.
All right, thank you, good job. The farthest range.
It was 650 grams for the counterweight.
Six five zero?
 Yeah.
 Alrighty, so that's good. So we did discover that there was a maximum and then we have lesser returns after that. All right, very good. Fifth group, tell us about your data and your trebuchet.
Okay, our variable was the angle of launch as well.
 Angle, okay, that's good.
And we analyzed it visually, basically, and we found that the larger the angle or the higher it was, the larger the range was.
 The larger the angle equals the larger the range and did you have any limits to that?
Not really, it just kind of continues.
 As long as you continue to increase the angle, you increase the range.
So you mean like the angle of release of the sling? Or the like, how far back the arm goes before you let it go?
 How did you measure your angle?
Oh we measured the distance from the counterweight to our platform and like the farther that we raised it up, the larger the distance was.
 Okay, so the larger the angle to platform.
Like what other angle, could we have used?
 The back arm.
 Okay and this one was how far we pulled it back?
 Yeah.
So isn't that the same angle then?
 Yeah, but we just measured it inside.
 All right. All right so slightly different perspectives we've all found angles on. All right, our sixth group.
We varied the counterweight also.
 Okay, counterweight and how did you choose to analyze your data?
We made a chart and a graph.
 Okay, so you had a chart and then the graph and when you graphed, what did you graph?
We graphed the weight of the counterweight versus the range.
 That's reasonable. The counterweight versus ... range. All right and as you examined your chart and the graph data, what did you come up with as a conclusion?
The more weight we put on, the further the range was.
 Was there an upper limit or not?
Not from the amount of weight that we tested. I mean I would suppose that if you put more weight than the trebuchet could handle, then it would probably would have bad results.
 So that actually gives us a place to go in future. If we were to try to add more to the slab, that might be something kind of interesting to find out, is what is the upper limit and at what point does the equipment fail? That might make a difference with our big trebuchet. We want the biggest one that was successful. Were there any other questions that came to mind or any other things that occurred to you while you were either taking data or analyzing it or building your trebuchet? Josh.
The angle at which the sling was released mattered a lot.
 All right and, in fact, if we were to combine that with your counterweight, we have a couple of variables we might examine at the same time for the same trebuchet. Other questions or things that you thought about that maybe you would've liked to have added to or varied? Steph?
When the sling did release, we could never really tell where it did, and we couldn't really tell if it released it after the object was launched or if it released at the point in time that it's supposed to. So you could never really tell--
