 Also causing habitat loss--
Anyways.
 Indirectly through our use of C02 emissions.
It says that... It is a naturally occurring greenhouse gas and we want to keep that, right? We want to keep it naturally occuring, we just wanna work on our--
 Levels.
Yeah. Because our impact is not exactly natural.
 It's not like we're trying to stop the unhuman-related processes. Just like, what we're doing to increase it. Because like, it's been staying at a level until we started releasing a bunch of CO2, and then it went up, so it's kind of obvious that we're the cause of that. So, I don't think it's going to go down, then what it was before, normally.
 Yeah, I think it's highly unlikely that this would ever happen.
 Yeah, and 20 to 40 degrees Celsius is a lot, too.
I highly doubt this would happen. If we reduce the CO2 emissions, in what we're doing, this is kind of ridiculous.
 Give some more evidence for that.
 Why?
 Yeah, why? Explain why do you feel that way?
Because carbon dioxide is part of the natural carbon cycle, yeah? But we're contributing to make more of it.
 There's so many economies and stuff that are dependent on it right now, that are not going to get rid of it for a long time. Therefore, there wouldn't be such a drastic change in the amounts of carbon dioxide, that there wouldn't be a drop of 20 to 40 degrees Celsius.
 Because we don't plan to tamper with the natural... Flow of the carbon cycle. We just want to tamper with our  which will take a long time anyway. So, we're going to be up and up and up for a while.
But we kind of already did tamper with the CO2, the natural ones, because yeah, we're trying to reduce our own personal emissions, now that we're doing it now, but we've already gone in and tampered with it. We've already cut down millions and millions of trees. We've already, so can we talk about... I'm trying to touch into what we've done in the past, and how if we kind of try and back out now, then we leave the Earth in a sticky situation. Does that make sense?
 Well, I do have a question. I don't remember, does the greenhouse effect exist naturally, even as like a little bit, right?
 Yeah, we just made it bigger.
So it's like, they're claiming that without the greenhouse effect, the Earth's average temperature would drop drastically, well obviously because the greenhouse effect exists naturally, but we're making so much of the greenhouse effect that we're trying to bring it down to normal levels. We're not trying to bring it down below normal levels. I think they're saying that this is going to happen if it's below the normal level, but the problem is that we are already above the normal level, so if we bring it down, it's not going to make it a complete effect anyway.
 I mean, they are right saying that it's going to get significantly below, as everyone said, it's not going to be to the point where life will not exist. But I mean, the process by which sun penetrates the earth, like some of the heat is retained because of that effect. And what we're doing is enabling the Earth to retain more heat than it normally does. So by releasing some of it, by reducing emissions, we are making the Earth much, much cooler.
 But we also can't get rid of the greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere. So, those would stay there, and our temperature probably wouldn't drop as much, probably still would drop, maybe not as extreme.
 And also, we live in a world where we use so much carbon dioxide, there's no way that we're going to get it to the level of just the natural processes. I mean, at least not in a ten year period.
 I was wondering how long it thought we were going to slow so-called global warming. It doesn't really give us a projection.
 I don't think we're going to have another ice age for a long time.
 I mean, we're having a mass extinction as it is, the way we are right now. I think if anything, reducing it would help stop the mass extinction.
I think we've kind of talked about all we can at this point.
Alright, so, at this point, if you feel like you have talked a lot, in an effort to get you to stop, I'm going to have you actually, I want you to scoot your chair back like a foot or two, for the next one, to give some other people a chance to talk. Yeah, I have two, you want the good ones with lotion?
The next one, sorry, is, "Concerns over CO2 emissions are unfounded." Somebody want to read?
Okay. "Concerns over CO2 emissions are unfounded. "Water vapor is a leading greenhouse gas. "Today, Mythbusters Daily exclusively reveals "what climate scientists have been hiding from the public. "Water vapor is actually a much more prevalent "and potent greenhouse than carbon dioxide. "Water vapor concentrations in the atmosphere "between 30,000 to 40,000 ppm, "while maximum estimates "put CO2 around 370 ppm. "Due to its abundance, water vapor's "a much more important greenhouse gas, "so human inputs of CO2 are negligible. "We should stop focusing on CO2, "and refocus research and funding "on reducing the amount of water vapor in the atmosphere." 
Would that be parts per million for ppm?
Yeah, parts per million.
Water vapor unit, really, really. Okay. We have a whole water cycle, I know we have the whole carbon cycle and everything, but we have contributed so much to the carbon cycle. I mean, and global warming hasn't really been a problem until recently, gee, I wonder why? Maybe because, I don't know, we are emitting a lot of carbon. I mean, it's not like we've been emitting more water, you can't create more water. Okay. Yeah, I'm done, I'm sorry.
 I think if you explained what the greenhouse effect actually is it will disprove the water vapor theory. Because the way the greenhouse effect works is completely unrelated with water vapor.
 How?
 Well, because like, isn't the greenhouse gas a gas that lets in sunlight, but it prevents the heat from leaving, or whatever or something right? But water doesn't, I don't think water does that.
I thought it was a greenhouse gas. We learned about that in chapter 20. But... We did it on the worksheet, maybe, or the thing that we had for homework last night. It's considered a greenhouse gas. That's all I know.
 You know what effect it had?
Sorry.
No, it is a greenhouse gas. I remember reading that. But--
 You can grab a textbook, if you'd like.
 Keep talking, Elizabeth.
Water vapor has always been there. It has always been at this level. Am I wrong?
 Well, I mean, if our CO2 emissions are increasing, and global warming is happening, then you would be releasing more water vapor. I mean, heat would cause that to happen.
But then technically this is an effect, it's not a cause, then.
 Is it possible to be both?
Maybe.
 Like a positive feedback loop?
 What do you know about water vapor?
 It's a greenhouse gas. We know that now.
Isn't it when water evaporates.
 Clouds. 
 Nope, that is an excellent point.
Hold on, you guys, what do clouds do? They block sunlight. 
So, if the global temperatures rise, there would be more water vapor, because there would be more fluctuations of creating water vapor?
 Don't look at me, look at your people. And people who are on the outside are not supposed to be talking.
 Well, just like--
 Well, she can finish.
 Sorry, sorry, no go ahead.
Go ahead, finish. She said  you could finish.
Oh, Okay. Well, when water vapor, think about it, when you like boil water, it's hot, and it creates water vapor. So, increases in global temperature, there would be a possible connection between increased temperature and increased water vapor.
Hot air rises.
Which way would it be though? Because if increasing temperature causes increase in water vapor, does that mean increase in water vapor causes increase in temperature?
 Well, you said that water vapor is clouds, so wouldn't, clouds would block sunlight, so wouldn't that decrease temperature? But that's kind of like contradictory.
 Can that happen, though?
 Like how hot air rises, and cold air drops, so maybe, forgot what that process is called.
 Well, it's like sometimes when you're on like islands, or something that it's like all cloudy, but still really hot and humid, so maybe it can increase the temperature. 
 I have a question. At what altitude do clouds form?
It depends. I mean they can form at ground level. That's what's basically fog.
 What's the highest altitude that clouds are going to reach? For the most part, like on average?
I have no idea, that is an excellent question.
 But like what part of their, is it under the stratosphere?
There's a laptop over there if you guys want to get it. No one's ever asked me that. That's a really good question. I don't know. I know that they're throughout the troposphere, but I'm not sure how high up in the stratosphere they go. That's a really good, I don't know.
 Can I read something really quick? "Four natural greenhouse gases in the troposphere "are water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, "and nitrous oxide. "These gases have been present, in varying concentrations "in the troposphere during most of the Earth's long history. "Fluctuations in the troposphere, "concentration of these gases, especially carbon dioxide "and methane, plus changes in solar output "are the major factors causing new changes "in the average temperature of the troposphere "over the past 400,000 years." And then it just talks about how from the beginning of the industrial revolution, human actions have led to significant increases in carbon dioxide, and therefore it correlates the relation to the increase in temperature of the globe.
I just read another thing. "Additional clouds can have a warming effect, "positively back by absorbing and releasing heat "into the troposphere. "Or a cooling effect, a negative effect, "by reflecting more sunlight back into space." So, they can have a warming effect.
So, should we be worried about water vapor more than carbon dioxide?
 No.
Why?
 Because doesn't the CO2 cause the warming, which, never mind.
 No no, keep going. That was good, keep going.
 That was it.
 Okay. 
Well, based on what she just read, and based on everything we know about carbon dioxide, we know that carbon dioxide can lead to a lot of effects. A lot of them bad. And one of the major things is that it does lead to more water vapor, and if water vapor is such an issue in terms of global temperature increase, then you would think their first thought would be decrease carbon dioxide emissions. But, no.
Can we directly regulate water vapor?
o. Can we directly regulate CO2?
Yeah, we can decrease our emissions. We can switch to alternative vehicles. We can find other sources of energy. I mean there are a lot of options with water vapor, we just have a water cycle. We can't tell the water vapor to stop rising into the clouds, like, "Yeah, can you just pause for a moment?" No, we can't do that, because it's a natural cycle.
 Are we done with that one?
So, what do we have so far, Nida?
Well, that heat would cause the release of more water vapor, and clouds can trap and release heat, but they can also cool. And concluded that clouds are water vapor, first of all.  What we were saying, should we worry about water vapor more so than CO2? Probably not, because we can regulate CO2, but not water vapor. And water's a greenhouse gas.
I call that using science. 
 I have a question for you. In nuclear power plants, how the steam comes from the cooling tower. Is that water vapor emission?
That is considered a water vapor emission.
 Okay, so maybe we could control that aspect of it, control the steam.
One additional thing to just sort of keep in mind, and we'll talk about this later, is what we call residence time. Does anyone know what that is? Residence time is how long a chemical stays in wherever it is. And so one of the things that we're concerned about, when we look at a chemical, is its residence time. So, if we're talking about a water pollutant, what's the residence time? How long is it going to stay in water? Is it going to break down quickly, or is it going to be very persistent, and is it gonna last for a really long time? So, when we were looking at greenhouse gases, we're also looking at what's the residence time in the atmosphere. How long does an average molecule stay in the atmosphere? And water vapor tends to cycle in and out of the atmosphere a lot quicker than some of our other greenhouse gases. Its cycles are usually on the order of days, whereas others are on the order of months to years, versus like, do you guys know what CFCs are? The ozone-depleting compounds. Chlorofluorocarbons, we'll talk more about those as well. CFCs are also a greenhouse gas, but their residence time in the atmosphere is more like hundreds of years. Hundreds of years to thousands of years. That would be something we would be more concerned about.
 So like, the residence time of something radioactive could be like its half life?
Yep. And then a third factor that we look at is also how potent of a greenhouse gas it is. Some gases have more warming potential, and some gases have less warming potential. So, we also want to look at what is its potential for heat trapping versus its concentration? And we'll talk a little more about that, too. Alright, we have two left. I'd actually like for you to pick one. I'm thinking maybe you should do the freezing temps one, because we already kind of talked about the cloudy one, but if you want to do the cloudy one you can do the cloudy one.
 You suggest the freezing temperature one?
That's my suggestion, but I won't be upset if you overrule me.
Let's do freezing temperatures.
Does anybody want to write--
