Yeah?
I have a question. It says how does the ?
Skip predictions. Move on. Yeah. Olympic athletes--how does your data compare to Olympic athletes? How does your data compare to the class average?  Yeah?
Do we do the predictions? 
It does help to have somebody look at it with you. Sometimes it's not as obvious as you think. Scott, we're going to stay on task, right? Good.  We're not doing predictions, right?
No.
So, take a look at patterns. What you want to do for this question is look at patterns. Do you see any patterns there? Okay, good. It's not necessarily worse, by the way. It's definitely different. It's worse, Skye, if you're like dead. If we're talking about heart rate and yours is worse... So, we still have a little bit to learn how that affects you if you are inactive or not.

So, let's look at the pattern, there. You see that? That's kind of what I was thinking. You just missed that one. Again, one of the things we can talk about then is data collection. Exactly. Come on, let's go.
It's not the same numbers. It's the same pattern.
Right. Good. Any patterns that you guys are seeing back there?
Yeah.
A little bit? What might that be? This is science, be more specific. Are there any patterns for number four? You guys skipped it? It's okay. Yeah. Four. You don't have to do predictions. You compare to athletes. Don't do it for predictions, but do it for your class data and athletes.  Okay. Now, that's a perfect, simple question. Now we take that information and put it into number six. Hopefully you're going to make the mental jump that we need here. What does heart rate have to do with homeostasis? If we challenged our body with a little bit of exercise, you know how heart rates work, now the question is why. How does that keep us alive? There you go. Good. How much more time do we need?  Did you get this one right? If you guys did then you understand the process, hands down congratulations. Make sure you share your answers. Make it quick, I don't want people in and out. We good? How about a drink? Here you go. We got it. It's good. No, I've got it covered, okay? Two more minutes remain in your seats. Number six--there you go. You're good. Good job, Scott. You're very subtle and very helpful. Thank you. Remember, we've got a mic that's on there. All right, got two more. Thirty more seconds, right? Then you're back in your own seats. If you can do six, you're the best. Ten seconds or so. Get in your own seats for the next ten seconds.  Two things are going to happen--we're going to start off with simple answers, then we're going build upon them and then hopefully we'll get to the more creative ones at the end. This class, we have enough time to do that. So, let's do that right off the bat. Question one. Daryl, can you read it or would you prefer to have somebody else read it?
I can read it.
Okay. Good.
"What is the hypothesis being tested?"
Okay. So, let's talk about it. In our experiment, we were looking to get something measured. What is a valid hypothesis for this experiment? Scott we've got and then Alicia. Alicia, let's go.
How does exercise affect your heart rate?
Good. Now, that's a step in the right direction. The hypothesis has got to include the concept-- Alicia and anybody in her group want to help her out--it's got to include the concept of homeostasis. So, can we do that? Can we tale a look at our aim, a look at our model hypothesis--how does exercise affect heart rate? That's a good start. Anybody else have something else different that would support our understanding of homeostasis? You're yawning. You okay? All right. Let's sit up. Thank you. Little bit more. Good. Good. Like you're playing third base, okay Matt? Good. Let's sit back now. There you go. Got it. Anybody else? Go ahead.
If we do exercise then our heart rate will change.
Okay. So, that's kind of what Alicia said. Go ahead.
It should keep going up and then when you're not, it goes down.
Again, a great, great hypothesis if we were at a third or fourth grade level, that's something we want to do. But we're not at third or fourth grade. It's a tenth grade class here. I want you to get out of your seventh grade minds and add this concept of regulation. You want to try?
How does homeostasis affect your heart rate?
"How does homeostasis affect your heart rate?" Think about that, okay? You want to reword that? Which causes which?
Oh, how does your heart rate affect homeostasis?
Good. But now we've got to remember. We combined exercise in this. Kevin?
How does your heart rate change to meet the needs of your muscles and cells in the body?
You didn't use the word "homeostasis," but, "How does your heart change to meet the needs of your cells and your heart in your body?" Excellent. I don't need you to write that. I just need you to understand that's the direction we're going. You want to try now?
I had almost the same thing. I put, "Heart rate changing throughout exercise to the needs of homeostasis."
Homeostasis. Now you guys are closer on it. So, this is about how does your body adapt itself, even when stress with exercise to maintain balance, to maintain homeostasis. In the beginning of this unit, you guys remember I had the balance board up here? How many of you got on it? I forget. One person? Two people? That's it? Three people? Do you remember how hard that was to do? Did we throw things at the people?
Yeah.
Was that easier or harder to stay balanced when that was happening?
Harder.
No, I thought it was like easier.
What's the room for error? How easy is it for one of the sides to touch or how not easy is it?
It's very easy.
Same with homeostasis. That margin of error--we're in a small range here. If I take your temperature, Dustin, and it's healthy?
Not healthy?
Okay. 98.6?
No.
But what if you're 102? What if you're that tell you? You want to try? So, 98.6 is normal. But what if somebody takes your temperature and you're at 100 degrees or
It's not normal.
You want to give me a word for that?
Sick?
You would be sick. You'd have a fever. Something would be wrong with you. You would be not normal, right? Good. That's a small number. 98.6 and if you have 101, you've got to see a doctor or something. You've got to get rest. You've got to get medicine. You've got to do something to help your body heal. All right. Number one, done. Number two and three--Daryl, you did a good job reading the first one. Richie, can I ask you to read the second one?
Sure. What are the controls in the experiment?
Okay. So, controls--another word for controls anybody, real quick?
Independent variables?
No. Not at all. Constants. Things that don't change. So, above the word "controls, " can you guys write the word "constants?" Things that stay the same. So, Savannah, good, good opportunity for you to learn, okay? So, when we say controls, we're talking about the exact opposite of a variable, which is a thing that changes. Everything stays the same or constant. What are some the examples of the constants that you have in this experiment, the controls? Go ahead.
The three categories?
The three categories. We mentioned everybody in the same three categories. Okay. Go ahead.
The amount of time you're giving us.
And how much time was that? Do you remember?
Two minutes?
Two minutes, two minutes, two minutes. The amount of time was the same.
The temperature?
Temperature in the... ?
Stairway.
Good. Because if you were going to talk about your own temperature, actually that changes. Again, that's a whole other topic about homeostasis, that when we exercise, we start sweating, right? So, you're talking about the temperature in the exact place. Okay. Anybody else? Go ahead.
Where we exercise and then the height of the stairs, like if one stair was higher than the other, then it would be harder.
Right. All the steps are the same. Now, here's a control one kid said in my last class and the other kids disagreed with him. He said the exercise was the control, that we all did the same thing.
No.
Do you remember what we did? We walked the stairs. Did we all walk the stairs the same way?
No.
Well, some of you kids hustled, right? Like two minutes, you were like bunnies, like gerbils on the stairway. You were just going crazy. Others were just walking and it was okay. Good. Let's move on. Three, independent and dependent variables. That would be helpful. Thank you for your hand up. We only need one answer of the two and somebody else will give the other one. So, dependent or independent, whatever you want.
Heart rate is the dependent variable upstairs.
Okay, one second. One second. So, tell me a little bit more, though, Daryl. Is it heart rate and how do we measure the heart rate? Take a look at your graph. Your dependent variable is going to be very well described on your graph. Help me out. Go ahead. Okay. You're looking at it. Somebody want to help him out? What is the dependent variable of this? He's close, but he's not close enough to be right. Savannah?
Number of heart beats per minute?
Per minute. You had to have the per minute on that, okay? That's the standard that we use in science. Independent variable--Kelsey, would you like to try?
I'm not sure I know it.
Okay. That's okay. What did we introduce in this experiment to affect our heart rate to see if we could stay balanced?
Exercise?
Bingo. So, your independent variable?
Exercise.
Exercise. Two minutes of exercise is what we did. Very good. Your back group, you have another one or it's all up here? Okay. Four, how does your data compare to the Olympic athletes? How does your personal data compare to the class? Now, remember, we're scientists. So, you just can't say, "It went up and then it went down," or whatever. You can say that, but it's got to be justified with some sort of specific numbers. Richie had his hand up first, okay Justine? Okay. Go ahead.
My heart rate predictions were very low because I didn't have any idea and then my actual heart rate was higher than the Olympic athletes because they're used to running a lot.
Okay. Here's a good example of what I'm talking about. First of all, what you did with predictions is great. We didn't actually have to even do that one for this question, but that's great. Richie, when you say they were higher, what do you mean? Your resting rate was higher? Your post exercise rate was higher? Your recovery rate was higher?
All of them.
Okay. You've got to include them in your answer. You have to include that in your answer. You've got to be specific. Go ahead, Matt. Margaret, you're next, okay? Yeah. Go ahead.
My prediction, I had low numbers, but after doing the experiment, only one of my numbers was lower than the Olympic athletes.
Okay. So, again, what was that one number?
Post-exercise.
Post-exercise was lower. Wow. That's rare, by the way. Did you see the class data compared to you, then? We weren't supposed to do the prediction, but I'm getting so many hits here. How many of you to a look at your prediction compared to other people? Quite a few people. You guys when you were doing this, you asked me, "What's the normal range?" And I didn't tell you. I wonder what you would say your prediction is after I gave you a range. I purposely didn't just to let you see, just like you said, "Mine was off because I didn't know any better." Good. All right. Five--super important question here--oh, I'm so sorry, does anyone else want to contribute to the Olympic athletes? I'm so sorry. Go ahead.
My actual heart rate was higher than the Olympic athletes, but for the exercise one, it was only seven heart beats lower.
Okay. So, what does that mean to you? How close to an Olympic athlete are you is what I'm asking.
I guess it could be exercise. Like with the Olympic athletes, I know it wouldn't be like anything for them. For me to be like that far off is kind of like impressive.
Right. And how would you know that? Didn't you say you had like a cousin who...
Does crew.
Does crew at the Olympic level or just does crew?
She does crew at an Olympic level.
Wow, a premiere athlete, then. Fantastic.
What's crew?
Crew is when you row a shell or row a boat. There's singles, doubles and quads.
Oh yeah.
Fantastic. Anybody else before we move on? Christina and then Scott.
I noticed that we're just like, like I realized we're all, like, the same because when the Olympic athletes went up, class average went up and ours went up, so I noticed it was the same pattern, just like depending on what we were doing it was different than the Olympics and all that stuff.
That's the big picture I want everybody to see here. Take a look at your graphs one more time. Do you agree with what Christina just said? Forget about your prediction number. Did you see that there's a pattern here? No matter who you are as an individual in this class or as a class average or as Olympic athletes, when we exposed our body to exercise, what happened in all cases?
It went up.
So, we would say it increased. Okay. What happened when we rested, post-exercise? Yes?
It decreased.
It decreased. Right. So, there is a general pattern. Excellent job, Christina. Go ahead, Scott. Make it quick.
I had the same thing as her.
Okay. Good. All right. Key question--if we can answer six, we've got this lesson down pat. When muscles are active, cells use nutrients and oxygen at a higher rate and produce waste, chemicals and heat more rapidly. What does heart rate, how does heart rate demonstrate regulation/homeostasis in the body? I've got three hands up. I didn't see the order. I'm sorry. So, I'm going to go four or five hands up. I got one, maybe two, I don't know, Gabby, three, go ahead. Richie, if someone leaves something out, it's yours.
When you're exercising, like, you're using more nutrients and oxygen so the blood has to carry more nutrients at a faster rate so your muscles get it. It does that to maintain homeostasis. So, it's, like, using it constantly.
Okay. Daryl? She did a good job. I'm going to change the question for you. What if your body didn't do that? What if you're running up and down the stairs, Daryl, and your heart rate didn't increase?
It would have a hard time maintaining homeostasis.
Okay. Excellent. And what would happen? What do you think?
You'd be dehydrated and wouldn't sweat or anything.
Well, I don't know if you'd be dehydrated.
You wouldn't get as much oxygen because it wouldn't be working as fast and you wouldn't be like... So, it might get stuck in there while you're running up and down...
