Where do I have more potential energy, at position A, or position B, Matt?
 Position A.
Why?
 Because it's fully stopped before it's there, it's already moving a little bit.
What else? Why does this point here, point A, have more potential energy than point B? So this is A, this is B. Does everyone agree that position A has more potential energy? Raise your hand if you agree with that. Okay. Now who can tell me why, why does position A have more potential energy than position B?
 It has more potential to do work.
Why, has potential to do work, yes, why?
 It has a greater height.
It has a greater height. Who mentioned gravitational potential energy at the beginning of the class?
 I did.
Okay, so going back to GPE. When you have a pendulum swinging back and forth, types of energy that are involved are kinetic energy, and potential energy, specifically. We can say that the potential energy is representing gravitational potential energy. If you focus your attention here. What is that?
 A pendulum?
 A pendulum. Similar to what you have here. Actually, you guys within the next week, you'll actually be working with the simulation, it's effect simulation, they're online. They're free for you to use and they're nice because they allow you to play. I know you like to a play a lot.
 I like to play.
 Yes, Matt.  You will be working with this, but I just wanted to show you another application of this, just in a different format. When we swing the pendulum what's going to happen?
 It's gonna move.
 It's going to move and at point here. And here, let's say A and B, what type of energy is being represented?
Potential.
 Potential energy. Who can tell me where kinetic energy is going to be represented? You wanna come up?
 Sure. Between A and B.
So every place along the path between A and B. Does everyone agree with Ali?
 Yes.
Yes, okay. Where is gravitational potential energy at its max? Wanna go up and point?
At points A and B.
Right, so everyone agree on the two ends? Where would kinetic energy be at its max? Where is kinetic energy at its max?
Right here.
Why?
Because it's lowest.
What else? So we said here, let's label this point C, we already used A and B. Why is kinetic energy at its maximum value at this point here?
 That's when the potential energy is at its lowest.
Great, that's where potential energy, the gravitational potential energy, is at its lowest. And if you remember or can recall the kinetic energy formula, what does the formula state? What variables involved in the kinetic energy formula, Matt?
 Mass and velocity.
Mass and velocity. What can you infer about the velocity of the pendulum as it's swinging along its path back and forth, from A to B? What can we infer about the kinetic energy?
 It's terminal velocity is .
Well, we're not gonna say terminal velocity, the object isn't falling, it's attached. What can we conclude about the velocity at point C, any thoughts? Garrett?
 Greatest.
 It's at its greatest. When the pendulum is at this point, it stops at each point A and B, our two end points, it stops for a split second because it has to do what? Maddy, did you say it?
 Turn around.
It has to turn around. When it swings back down, what's happening to the velocity? Is it increasing or decreasing? Increasing, so if the velocity is increasing, what's gonna happen to the kinetic energy value? It's also going to increase. Now, if I show you a graphical representation. Who can describe the graphical representation?
 Like a downward .
Okay. Ali?
As it moves I guess it swings back and forth, the kinetic energy when it reaches the middle point, it's the highest and then when it reaches points A and B the potential energy gets highest.
So does this simulation validate the thoughts and ideas you just came up with?
 Yes.
Yes and we see that through the representation of the graphical information of your potential energy and kinetic energy. I can stop it at certain areas. Sometimes it comes out better than others. It is somewhat on its way back, but just note that the kinetic energy is lower than the potential energy. And if I'm really good I can maybe try and get it in the middle. Close enough, it's hard to stop it right in the center. But you notice that the potential energy does what?  Decreases and your kinetic energy will?
 Increase.
Increase rather. And you said that the kinetic energy will be at its max at point C. One other factor that's involved here. There is one other type of energy or form of energy that's involved, can anyone think of it? Celini?
 Thermal.
Thermal energy.
 Mechanical?
Mechanical.
 Thermal.
 Thermal. Garrett, you had your hand up.
 Thermal.
 Thermal. Who agrees with thermal? Raise your hand.
 Wait, actually no.
Is there thermal energy involved in the motion of a pendulum?
 No.
That's mechanical. Thermal. If you're saying thermal energy, what form of thermal energy is represented here with the pendulum? What is the pendulum doing right now? It's moving through the?
Air.
Air. When objects move through the air, what can occur? Or what is present? Air resistance, which is a form of?
 Friction.
 Friction. Is or is not friction an example of heat energy?
 Is.
Or thermal energy? Yes, so is it possible for us to have some thermal energy present?
 Yes.
 Yes. Now how come it's not showing up on the graph?
 There's no friction.
There's no friction. So what I like about this, and like I said, you guys will be using the simulation. And one of the options you have is to change the value for friction. Right now I have no friction so it's not showing up on the grid. So if I increase the friction you're going to see how the value for thermal energy will change. Also, when you apply or work with the simulation, you can actually change the mass of the ball, or the pendulum in the length of the pendulum itself. And those are factors that you will investigate and collect data on in the upcoming days. So let's add some friction. Let's go about halfway. What's happening to the friction?
 It's increasing.
 It's increasing on every swing.
It's increasing with every swing.
 And the pendulum is not reaching points A and B anymore.
And the what?
 It's not reaching points A and B anymore.
Why, what's happening here, we have all these types of forms of energy, what's happening?
 The air resistance slowing it down.
The air resistance could be slowing it down. Want a little more?
 Falls away.
Lots of friction, and what's gonna happen? Ali?
 Losing particles?
It's not losing particles, I'm not losing any mass. We're not changing the mass, we're not changing the particles if there's a great deal of friction.
 It's losing energy.
It slows down. Does it lose energy?  How many of you think it loses energy? Raise your hand. How many of you think otherwise? What happens to the energy that was present? We had colorful bars, Matt said it's colorful. We had colorful bars representing kinetic energy and potential energy. Now we have these great big red bars, representing thermal energy and the total energy is thermal right now. What happened in this simulation? Ali?
I don't know that, but because in the definition of thermal energy that's the total potential or kinetic energy in an object.
So there is potential and kinetic energy involved, yes. Steven, you wanna try and help him out?
 The energy gets transferred to thermal?
Exactly, the energy gets transferred to thermal energy. What does the word transfer mean? Or transform, what does that mean? You know the movie Transformers? You guys are not too young for that right? I had a Transformer. I did. Jessica.
 It changes?
 It changes. If we were to come up with a new concept today explaining what happened, what could we say that we learned about the energies involved? What would be the main concept, the thing you just learned which Steven and Jessica proceeded? What happened to the energies, who can restate what they just stated, Matt? Or maybe give a definition. Energy is?
 Transferred, but not lost.
Okay, energy can be transferred or transformed and energy is not lost. So what you learned right now is that energy can be transformed into other forms of energy. Would you agree with that statement? Raise your hand if you agree. And what does the word transform mean?
Bella?
 Change.
 Good, change. So you changed. We began with what kind of energy at this position? Elaine.
 Potential.
 Potential. Ailsa, it changed to?
 Kinetic.
 Kinetic, it changed to?
 Potential.
 Potential. Changed back to?
Kinetic.
Kinetic, and we also have some thermal energy involved. Is everyone clear on that concept? What you're going to do with your group, get out a sheet of paper, a piece of scrap paper. Or you could use the back of your packet is fine, there's a blank spot on there. One paper.
 Per group?
 Per group.  Okay, what you're going to do. I'm showing you two objects, I brought in props for you guys today. Real life, this is my toaster from home.
 Aw.
 Is it a brave little toaster? 
What I want you to do, you have two examples. Stand and look at the fan because it is plugged in, it is turned on, the blades are moving. What I want you to do to these two objects, I want you to write down the forms of energy that you think are involved with these appliances or objects, but what I want you to do is take it a step further. I want you to tell me or place in order, what type of energy do you begin with and then maybe with one to two types of energy or forms of energy that are transformed. So you begin with, you might have a thought, what type of energy do I begin with in order for the toaster to work? What type of energy did the fan begin with in order for it to turn on? And I want you to list the types of forms of energy involved and then put them in the order of transformation. You're gonna get about two to three minutes to do this. I would like every person in the group to participate. You all should be able to share your ideas freely. Respect what other people are saying, and then come to a consensus and write down your idea and your energies. Any questions before you begin? Any questions? Okay. 
See, it like stops here . Like that's potential energy and . 
Well, if you look at the fan, I purposely turned it on. So the blades are doing what? They're moving. Are they doing work? Yes. Base your forms or types of energy on what you see. The blades are moving, it is turning, okay? If you want to list the energy you begin with, put an arrow, put the next form of energy, put an arrow. Put the next form of energy to show the consecutive transformations of your energy that's involved with the two objects. Is it turning right now? Do you all agree on that? I would spend a little time sharing some ideas about that.
Wait, wait, wouldn't they both be nuclear energy?
Nuclear energy?
Yes, because it's .
Think about your definition of .
 Here you put the energy for toaster.  I would write it down. Sucked in. I don't have the jolt in that, look. I don't have the toaster plugged in.  Don't burn yourself. But let's look and observe. Three of you, do you feel anything?
Yes, do you see all those little black pointy things, when you put something in there and you turn it on? I don't know what you call those things, but they like...
The coil?
Yeah, the coil, yeah.

Yes, they do! That's how you generate the heat.
If you had the toast it would turn on.
How about in the oven, coils inside, what colors do they turn?
Orange. They turn orange, the same thing.
They turn orange? So do you think that there's a form of energy involved here?
 Yeah.
Magnetic. That's right?
Oh!
But you discovered it on your own.
