 Okay. Look at your music. We are doing four parts, obviously. With them, take just a general idea for the whole thing. Raise your hand if you see or have any eighth notes in the whole song. Raise your hand if you ever sing eighth notes. Sopranos, where do you have eighth notes? Shelby, tell me.
 Measure nine.
 Say it really loud so they all hear you.
 Measure nine.
 Measure nine, very good. Audrey, where do you have eighth notes?
 Measure thirteen.
 Thirteen, good. Reese, where do you have eighth notes?
 Measure nine and measure...
 Measure nine and thirteen.  Hey, what do you notice about the soprano part and the bass part, then? Same rhythm. Almost the same rhythm all the way through. Tenors, where do you have eighth notes? Braden.
 Twenty-one and twenty-two.
 Twenty-one and twenty-two.  So, getting toward the very, very end. Altos, tell us something about your part rhythmically. Raise your hand. Give me a summation of what you do. Jamie.
 We don't have any.
 You don't have any at all? You only have quarter notes, half notes and some whole notes. So, how many beats does a half note take up, everybody?
 Two.
 Two, make sure you last long enough through that and then look up at the whole notes. Solfège, what key are we in? Where is Do? Brady.
 F.
 F major. So, the first pitch that the altos have is...
 Do.
 Do. Sopranos, what's your starting pitch?
 Mi.
 Basses, what's your starting pitch?
 Do.
 Tenors?
 Sol.
 Very good. Look at it for a second, there are some jumps in the very beginning. They don't mess around, right away we've got some eighths and some intervals. Chant on solfège, your part. One and two and three and four and... ♪  ♪ Very good. Go on. ♪  ♪ Two, three, four. On the second to last measure on the first page, bassists and altos will move. Stepwise, motions, so you'll--  they both go up one step. Be aware of that. Notice that we have some repetition. Do you see some patterns that are coming back? So, if you miss it the first time, you get a second shot. Where if you get it right the first time, remember what it sounds like so you can do it again. Continuing, second page. One, two, three and chant. ♪  ♪ Freeze. Let's go back and join the basses with us at measure nine. Do, re, mi. Everyone, measure nine, and... ♪  ♪ Okay. Sopranos, careful, it might screw up your voice. Why did you have an issue there? Why did you miss it?
 It's a skip.
 Because it's a skip in the melody? And why else? A practical reason.
 Here to here.
 Because it's hard for you to look from the edge of the page down to the next one. Top of the next page, measure seventeen. A little faster, and go. Sorry, seventeen. Sopranos, fa; altos, la; tenors, fa; basses, fa. Ready? Hey, everybody has fa, that might be a good place to find the measure.
 La.
 This will help. You're right, sorry, except the altos. Listen right there when you're actually singing, for that, and go. ♪  ♪ You'll have to hold this for a very long time. Go back to the beginning. The rule is number six. Jesse, repeat the last step. The last step.
 Oh, never quit singing.
 Never quit singing. Look up, find your keys points. Okay. Second key. ♪ Do mi so mi do so do ♪ ♪  ♪ Sing your starting note. ♪  ♪ One, two, three, four. ♪  ♪ Good. Now, I have two minutes to try to fix and try to correct, to do as much as we can to do a little bit better with this. Take a second and look through the piece and hear it go by in your heads. Do a quick run-through, because it's hard to know. I cant remember what I missed, I'm still freaking out about the whole thing. Take a minute, replay it in your head. Find areas where there were problems for you. Overall, you did extremely well. You listened to each other. You could hear that it sounded like music. If you weren't sure about an interval, you would sing it and then you would go, "Oh, this is right yes," and you were affirmed. And I think you got more confident as you went along. Problem areas. Raise your hands if you had one. Chelsea.
 My problem I had was with measure seventeen.
 Seventeen. Sopranos, do to fa, that's a like a little bit of a tricky leap and some of you hesitated a little bit there. So, then you heard it, and you were able to go on, and then I liked when you got it again when you got back to nineteen. Finding fa, that's a strange function in the music. Yes, Patrick.
 Measure nineteen, fa to la.
 Okay. nineteen, fa to la. Just making sure that you know where you're moving. Fa to la? Where? Oh, nineteen. Yes, sorry. My eyes were at seventeen. Good. Bass hands. Excellent, thank you. Grant, where?
 Twenty.
 Twenty? Yes, and what did you do?
 I couldn't figure out the notes, I mean I couldn't figure out the .
 I think it surprises you because you move up by a step. You were fine, so, la, and the ti, you weren't willing to actually sing ti, because it's not very often that you sing it. Stepwise motion, so, la, ti, do. You did an excellent job, basses, throughout, then returning to so and do when you had it. You had some issues with fa and la. Colin.
 Six and seven. Where we were going from la to fa, and then back to do, and then we had an eighth notes. Because of that...
 Okay. So, being aware of when you have eighth notes. And, chances are there isn't ever a point where you have eighth notes that other people don't. So, when you hear it, then you can move with them, and it's always by step when you have eighth notes. And it's always ascending. So, you don't have to worry about going down anywhere, but, yes, fa and la continue to be icky. I didn't time it. We have to sing it again. I'm so sorry. Okay, so we fixed the things that we missed. We're going a little faster, so it sounds like music, and not just this exercise. Listen across the room to each other.  ♪ Do, mi ♪  You stayed very well in tune. ♪ Do, mi, so, mi, do, so, do ♪ Set your key. ♪  ♪ Remember, you always sing with the very best tone that you possibly can. If you look up, basses, I'm trying to help you out some with my hand signs every so often. Sing your first note please. ♪  ♪ One, two, three, four. ♪  ♪ Have a seat. And now evaluate yourselves comparing the first reading to the second. That means you need to think about how well you did the first time versus how well you did the second time, and if you haven't had any thoughts or wanted to share anything yet, it's time, because this is opinion time, and there's no wrong. The room is going to tip over from the hands on this side. There are four sections. Jamie.
 Well, sometimes they're like a step away from each other, but something, like, I know they're like one long  and sometimes I .
 Okay. So, there are a couple little slips with stepwise motion that time. Okay, Hannah.
 I thought the sopranos the first time did a lot better than the second time.
 I would agree. The first time you did better than the second. There are a couple of reasons for this. Raise your hand if you feel like, when you think back on how well you've done both times you did better the first time. Why? Why? Emily.
 Because you were so focused and trying to get it right, so the second time we've already gone through it, so we relaxed a little and little things slip up.
 Okay. Some of you may have relaxed just a little bit too much. What else possibly? Colin.
 I think some of us got a little too over-confident.
 Ohhh, that's an excellent thing to check. Just making sure some of you don't get a little over-confident. Although, basses, the fa's and la's were much better this time as an overall section. Amanda.
 If the first time usually there's a few problem areas for me then I try to focus on them way too much and then I see the spots where it might have been tricky for me, like that jump from la to do. So, I freak myself out about that even though I got it right both times.
 You get stuck in your head a little bit.
 Yeah.
 Okay. So, doubting yourself and then not being sure. What else can happen? Ariella.
 Along with what Emily said about how we sometimes get over-confident because we've already seen it and we just fly by it because we're not really trying to pay attention to it too much.
 Okay. Ryan.
 Measure nine. It's the so, so, mi. I went back to the so because that's what we did on the first page.
 Oh, okay, because you're remembering, now, the patterns that you had. You get the patterns mixed up when you actually start to sing it the second time. That's a good thought, too. Michaella.
 Between the  and  because we to sing notes over and over again. over and over again. I didn't like it. It's kind of hard. I didn't get the first two notes right and finally on like, the third note. I think I just figured out what we were doing.
 Patrick.
 I think that sometimes  because we've already sung the music and now I think that we kind of know what's going on.
