I don't want a straight line.
No.
I like curves.
Yeah, a lot.
Because the friction in the air--
Yeah.
Pushes it, and the gravity  going on the next turn.
I think it's because there's like a big wall, and that's a small little plane, and everything has gravity.
You need to pull on the string. 
And, the reason why it's not going that way is because that wall will stray them away.
The wings get cool.
What was your longest throw? How long was it?
Oh, it was-- 
It was mine, and it was probably one, two, three, four, five, six. Five-
No, it's six.
One, two, three, four, five, six.
Into the six, but not before the six.
Oh yes, into the six.
Alright. Go over there, check that out.
38.
Four hundred--
538 centimeters.
Yeah.
Let's put how many meters. Five meters.
Write 538.
But, why did, because fliers don't go into the wall.
Because ... Everything has a little bit of gravity. There's not a whole lot of gravity where it would just go .
Yeah, and then that doesn't have a lot of gravity, but I mean--
I can see that, but he threw it high and it went up to the wall right there. 
But, it kind of did like that.
But, it didn't really smash.
I mean, it didn't go and stick.
Yeah, it didn't go. Gravity pulled it, but it wasn't going to hold it there.
Yeah. 
It's got more force on it.
Yeah, I think there's more gravity up there than right here because that's higher, and it's closer. It's like, it has a lot more gravity.
What has more gravity?
 Up there. 
Had more pull?
I think the reason why the sticks were going and the straw was going this way is because everything has a little bit of gravity--
And, the wall!
And, the wall, it like, a lot bigger than that stick, and it's gravity that's pulling it there, but it doesn't have enough gravity where it will just be like--
It's not like this!
Okay, so if everything has a little bit of gravity, what is the major gravity pull, though, that is bringing it down?
The Earth.
The Earth, because--  That's why, like if we threw this, that's why--  
That's why it chops.
Okay, this one went, it went three meters,  This one covered straw with paper and this one glides.
It's a lot bigger.
So, when it went like here, it went all the way down to the .
Yeah, it's faster because it's bigger and this one's smaller and it doesn't go far.
Glider, the other one's probably bigger. 
This one's also flat so it's got a better chance to glide.
Yeah. That one's like round and bigger, and it doesn't flop on the, and it doesn't go, like, far. When you throw it, it doesn't, like, when it goes it doesn't go far, but this one, like, it'll go far.
What do you think would happen if we put a paperclip on either the front or the back?
It would help--
It would lay it a little bit down--
It would go a little bit down, because it's, it has more weight, it'll go down.
If you put a paperclip on it, like a paperclip's not that heavy, but it would make it, like, when we fly it, it goes up in the air, and then comes back down and floats down. That's why they're so short.
What makes it come down?
Gravity.
Okay.
And, like you put a paperclip on it, it'll come down. Because the paperclip is heavier than the straw.
What if you put it on the back?
It would, it would ...
It would kind of slow it. It would be like that .
Okay, can you think of? What about this one? What if we put the paperclip on this one?
It would--
It wouldn't feel. It would get worse.
If we put the paperclip on here, then it would get all messed up because if it's flat and it's trying to . It has weight, it will just go.
Uh-huh, right. That one, when you fly it, before we got the paperclip, it goes high before it comes down. But, when we put the paperclip on it, it goes straight down, like that. And, like without the paperclip, without the paperclip on it, it will go like, it will go like an ocean.  With the paperclip on there, it would go farther. It would go farther and then it'll fall just down like that, but not go like that.
This one, let's try this one!
See, that one goes a lot farther.
And, it probably goes farther because I put a lot of force on it. If you even put a lot of force on this one, it will go down because it flies like, I threw it like that, and it just flies off, because it's the gravity. And you throw that one, it goes farther.
Okay, so gravity makes it come down faster than the glider?
It makes it go down, because if you just throw it without the paperclip, it won't, it will just come down because of gravity. _ Yeah, the straw one is going like that. And then it just goes like, see how it flips down? But, with the paperclip, it'll go farther.
Like that.
Tyler, what were you saying about the air? Do you think that has a, do you think that makes a difference in what Mary Morgan is saying this one kind of floats and then comes down? Go talk about that.
See, the air--
The air feels like windy in here.
It would push it, and then it would--
It would go like this.
Yeah, like that. And, it would just push. It would just push it towards like where everything was.
Yeah, and this one with the paperclip goes really far.
And, that paperclip, the reason it went far without the paperclip is because air pushed it and force.
What is that force called? When you push it?  Remember, it's called--
The thrust.
The thrust, that's right. So the thrust, when you push the plane, made a difference, is that what you said?  Could you change the one with the straw, is there any changes that you could make that you think would make it fly further? Talk about that as a group.
Put two paperclips.
One on the front and one on the back.
Put the lighter one on the back. Let's try that. I bet it will- It might go farther too. Okay, now push.
We have a paperclip on it, and we're going to see if it goes farther the second time. I think, I bet it will go, I bet it goes a lot longer.
That's fine. 
Well ... It went to 10!
It went to 10. 
Okay, so I want you to discuss in this group, I want you to discuss what you found when you threw, when you tested this with the paperclip on it. Just talk about that together.
Well, .
So when there's air, I think when they closed the air up, it went in and back out. But, but, but, tied together .
So, if you like flip off--
The paper clip.
The air, like if you could do this, and turn off the air, it would go further.
But, if you take off of it, I mean if you, it won't make it that far. It will just be like .
The paper clip, the straw, it does help.
Yeah, about the same as this one without.
I wonder what that one's like with paperclips.
Me too.
I want to try it.
This is my prediction. I think it's on an angle--
I think that's going to go further.
I don't know, because they don't have no air stream to hold it. 
I think it will go farther.
I don't.
See?
Well, you didn't put a lot of force on that one. Well, we all have to try.
But, I still think it went the farthest, but I think .
I think it's going to go farther.
Nope.
Well, it went farther than you.
It went
But, I mean, it didn't go--
You all tried it with this didn't you all? Let me try it this way.
I tried it with that, I tried it with that side.
It all went to the yellow, but--
But, it didn't--
Strong enough.
So, what did we find out back here?
That it puts more weight on it so it goes.
What puts more weight?
This little paperclip. The paperclip puts more weight to that one, and it's not going to nose dive. But I was standing right here and mine hit that wall. And, that's without the paperclip. And, then you put the paperclip on there, it doesn't go near as far.
Why did that make a difference? Was your throws the same? Did you use the same amount of force? What happened?
Mine felt like I was using the same force. I think it's just because that, since there isn't any air space on that one--
What do you mean airspace?
I mean like, the air can't go through this.
Yeah, like that's a straw, it has a hole.
It's just putting more weight on that one, so that's just going to go boop. If you use this one, and put the paperclip right here, it's going to cut off the air coming in right here. And, that's going to go further.
Oh, you're took off the air of the straw. And that makes it go further. 
Why does that?
Because the air in the straw is pulling it down because it's like...
Do you know what that's called?
Gravity.
Well, the gravity, but what about the air when the air is coming in?
Friction!
Oh, friction!
Friction, the air is causing friction? Okay.
The air's slowing it down.
And, also the air. Okay, now I want you to think about if you change this plane in any way, what changes could you make to it to make it fly further?
We could cut it up! 
Wrap around, and then have that like this.
Yeah, I think that's set to have the same throw. Because, actually having-- 
That one can go farther, but the paperclips on it, it won't fly further. But, if you put paperclips on this one, it'd probably go farther. Put some paperclips on there.
Because paperclips add more weight.
Yeah, and it lets it go further.
Here, Tyler, you want to throw?
That went two.
