 Like, learning is supposed to be a privilege, not a burden. It's like... Supposed to be... Like, that's why we're America. We have the choice, you're not supposed to be forced to... do it.
 Okay.
 Um, but like, about them picking a random person, they might, they might not just go pick a random person if they have to vote, because, if they have to vote, then they're gonna go see that candidate, candidate's political beliefs are, and what he or she is gonna do for the country.
 Okay. Trevor?
 But, if um... they're not gonna know which one to pick if they're not educated, or, don't know about the person.
 Okay.
 What if they don't know how to read? In their researching. They don't know how to read.
 Okay.
 Do you want me to say my question?
 Yeah, go, ask your question.
 Okay, um... If only, like, when we don't have... the law, only 60 percent vote, so, how is that supposed to show what America really wants? How is that supposed to show what president we want, and what choices we wanna do?
 But, if, we do get the other 40 percent that already don't wanna vote, then they would just pick one, and that still wouldn't be the, the will of the big United States.
 And outta the 60 percent votes, you could just make your, uh, votes outta that.
 What do you mean?
 Like, the people that did vote, just, choose a person who did get the most votes.
 But we wanna see what America as a whole really wants, not what a little over half of America wants.
 Um, our founding fathers vote for the right to vote, for, for freedom, and so, I think we should use that wisely.
 Okay, elaborate on that a little bit. Say that one more time.
 Um, if our founding  fathers vote for the right to, or fought for the right to freedom, then, I think we should use that correctly.
 So, you think, that, if the founding fathers looked at this law, they would say, 'this is not what we meant, when we said, you know, we want people to vote for our leaders', they didn't want us to force people, they still wanted it to be a freedom.
 Didn't we like, like, have the law, for, like, trying to get the opinion of the whole population of America? The other 40 percent, it still, wouldn't be like, their decision, because they would just, pick one, they wouldn't really care. So, they're not really getting any difference, by not having the law.
 But we're not forcing  them to do that, we're forcing them to help America.
 So, you're forcing them...
 Okay. Jackson, can you respond to that point?
 Um. Yes, if you, like, if we don't force people to vote, then, maybe the poor, just can't make it there. And if we say, 'oh, you have to vote', then we, then we could like provide them transporation to get to there. Also, if poor people won't vote, that means rich people will vote, and they'll just... vote for the person who they believe is gonna keep them rich, and that they'd not go against that.
 Do you think that that represents the majority of Americans, if only those, wealthy, or, at least, middle to upper class people are voting?
 No.
 No.
 Because if the poor people don't vote, they're already poor, that's already bad enough, and they don't get to voice their opinion, and in a democracy, too. That's just even worse.
 And that's a big segment of people, right? So, you're saying that, really, a lot of these people, maybe it's that it's not that they don't want to vote, it's that they don't have the opportunity, we need to provide some more... public, um, opportunities, like, opportunities like public transportation to allow them to vote, to make it easier. Okay?
 'Cause it's, not only poor and uneducated people, it's just people that really don't care that much, and like, when making those people vote, like kind of what she said, they could... most, a lot of 'em could try and break the law, if you force them to vote. Because they just don't want to and they really don't care, and like, if there's somebody who has... who doesn't care but, they're being forced to vote, and they have a really busy job, and they have a lot going on, they wouldn't have time to research, or anything, and so they could, they would just have to go out there when they did have to vote, they'd just vote for someone, 'cause they never had any time to do any research or look at something about the... people to vote for.
 Okay, let's come back to that point, 'cause I think we still have some questioners, who haven't... asked their question, who's, who's up next? Jaylen?
 Um... you say there are, different ways to... give them their complete and to vote, but, what are those ways?
 What'd she say? 
 Well, if you have, things...
 Hold on. Let me, let me make sure they heard what you're saying. Say it again, but say it louder.
 Okay. Um...  I say, it's different ways, to get them to vote, but what are those ways, that you get them to vote?
 Does anybody have a ready response for that?
 I can't hear her.
 She's saying, you guys are saying there are better ways than compulsory voting laws, there's other and better ways, so, what are those ways?
 Like, just because they're poor, doesn't mean they can't know that like, you can like, hang up posters, or like, get someone to hand out flyers or something. It doesn't have to be all electronic.
 I'm not talking about poor people. 
 Well, she's saying...
 It could help anybody, really, but...
 Okay. Respond...
 Well, but there are poor people that wanna vote, they don't have a chance to.
 Excuse me? 
 Well, hold on, hold on a second. Hold on, hold on, 'cause I, I'm not sure that y'all are understand what her point is. Say your point again.
 Um...
 With some passion.
 With passion? 
 'Cause that'll make your point.
 Just scream at her.
 WHAT are different WAYS that  you can get the American people to vote?
 Besides.
 Besides posters, because a poster's not gonna...
 It's compulsory voting.
 And besides these laws, what are some better ways to make people vote?
 Well y'all keep sayin' go and like, pick up people, and providing transportation, well instead of doing that to make them vote, you might as well just do that so that they might have the opportunity to vote rather than having to vote.
 So you don't necessarily have to have these laws, to still provide some public services to encourage people to vote. Okay.
 And like, we all know that we get those like, very long phone calls that are like, vote for this person because, they're gonna do all this stuff, and like, that then, like, someone who gets that phone call could actually think about it, and then like, 'maybe I should vote for that person', and you see the big... billboard thingies that have the big names on it, and all the signs in the yards, and so, that could make you think, 'well, maybe I should go vote, since... all these people are saying we should vote for that person.
 So you, you think they should have an increase in... in publicizing elections, we should, we should have more advertising when elections come up? Okay. Okay, 
 Well, if you were to like, have election...  um... that would like, cost a lot of money, to have like a lot of, um... transportation going around. So, um, and it's like, not a lot of people are gonna use that transportation, then why, just like,  so, why not just make them vote, cause, they already have public transportation out there.
 Okay. Let's top on that one, we'll come back to it, because we've got one more question.
 Uh, if we didn't  require people to vote, what would happen if... what would happen if like, nobody voted... decided to vote?
 Say that one more time.
 If we didn't require people to vote, what would happen if like, nobody decided to vote?
 Or a small majority of people.
 Okay.
 Well, people have different opinions, like, some people think that we put a voice out into the government, and say what we want, and then, some people think, like, that, we... that every vote counts. And... basically, there's... like, five... three million people in America, and I don't think every single one of them would not vote.
 Okay. Any other responses?
But we already have 60 percent voting. I mean... and, so... we know every, some--people are going to vote. It's just the people who... don't care about politics, and, just, like, when we had the survey, people, a lot of people didn't vote for the midterm election. But, on the other hand, some people did. We're always gonna have a group that doesn't vote, and a group that is voting, and if you make them vote they're not gonna care. Even, as more, as they did when they weren't voting.
 Okay, I'm gonna go ahead and open up the floor, because we've asked all the questions, so, pretty much anybody can answer or ask, but let's try and keep it on the same topic, so, if you are raising your hand, make sure you're responding to what the last person said. Okay? Uh, let's see. Connor.
 Oh, like you said, every vote counts, but like, we need more people to vote so we know that, like, we know the exact number, of like, who is going to be the president, or, in the House of Representatives, or the Senate. So that theres a better chance that they will get elected.
 Okay, so, we need a more accurate portrayal of what people think. We need more people to vote so we really know what Americans think. Okay.
 Well, I agree with Connor, but, going back to what everybody over there is saying, they're all saying, 'oh, they, they won't care, they wont, they wont care or anything and, they wont pay attention to what happens', but, I mean, if we can... make like... some kind of exception for like, special needs people, for the deaf and blind and... then um... also, we can get people to stand out in front of a booth, and once they'll go, get there, you can do a speech about... both candidates, and their ups and downs.
 Okay, so you're saying actually have, people at the voting polls that are kind of breaking down the two sides. Maybe for those people who didn't take the time to research it. Okay.
 Um, one of y'all keep sayin', we keep sayin' that they might not care, but like, in actuality, if you, if someone doesn't care, and you force them to care, not only is that kinda like, convincing, like, brainwashing them, it's also, if you force someone to do something, they're not going to want to anymore. So that wouldn't be helping anything.
 So you're saying it's, it's gonna actually make them more bitter, toward voting, if you force them to do it. Okay.
 And, someone said that it's gonna be for the good of the country, for making them vote, but, if they could choose a bad, a bad person, 'cause, it wouldn't be for the good of the country then.
 Okay, so if you force them to vote, and then they go and vote for a bad person, that's not gonna be helping the country at all. Okay. Jason.
 Um, like, um, you could, um, for those people that can't vote, or um, you could... put the... they could put the polls, the voting polls near... where those people, uh, live, and um, so that, they could like, if they can't drive there in a car, they could just walk there, because it'd only be like, maybe a block down their way.
 Okay.
 You could like, open a public train, like, so they don't have to pay to go as much.
 And then make it free?
 Yeah.
 For that day? Okay. Alexandra, what do you think?
 Alright, um, well like, making people vote is gonna make them more interested in like, the country, and then they'll actually care, 'cause like, they're not gonna wanna like, break a law, and so then they're gonna actually care about the country, and so they won't just be choosing a random person, they're gonna actually start caring and, start thinking about who they should choose.
 You really think if, if we force them to vote, then they, they will become more interested in politics and they'll go out and research it. Okay.
 Like, just like, if you make some, make everyone vote, then it's really not gonna change their opinion, they're still gonna have... like, they're still gonna... not really care as much as the person that would go out and vote without being forced. So you're really not getting an accurate... number of what they think they want, because they still... just because you're making them vote doesn't mean they're gonna... necessarily pick the right person.
 Okay.
 Um, they're always saying like that, we still have this 40 percent that haven't voted, well, everyone, like even the poor people and the uneducated, well everyone knows that there's a presidential election, or some kind of election going on, you can't, it's like, impossible to not know about it, and so really, it's their choice... that they didn't vote, most of the people who aren't poor but they're like middle class  like, they won't make the choice to vote, if...
 Okay. So you're,
 A lot of people have made the choice to vote.
 So you're saying, the presidential election, everybody knows about it, everybody probably has an opinion because it's all over the place, so, and 40 percent are not, obviously those 40 percent know that they don't wanna go and vote.
 They've chosen not to vote. Most of them have chosen not to vote.
 Okay.
 You know, I have to disagree with you, when you say that if we just tell people to vote, they'll just pick a random person. What I think is that, if people are being told to vote, they'll just go in there and say, 'well, if I'm being told to vote, I just might as well just pick someone good'. You'd think that they would actually try and think about something before they vote, like the term 'look before you leap'.
 So you think, if they have to go to the effort of voting, they're at least gonna think about it. They're at least gonna form an opinion. Okay.
 Um, like, you put, of, um, you  you could like, make the offices, make the person take the day off, and like, sort of give them the day off.
 And that's...
