 Anything else?
 So,  what composter would you want?
 I think we would want maybe like a three-tray or four-tray vermicomposter. And I do now admit it would be helpful to get one that would be cheaper. Maybe you guys have a different idea?
 Maybe, I was thinking that maybe we can make one, because I printed off some directions how to make a vermicomposter. So again, that would save us a lot of money just to make it. Like, this might cost $20 to get all these supplies. And I know some people have supplies at their houses that they could bring in to use for this. And this might cost $20, when a store-bought one off the internet may cost $100.
 Yes, but the  store-bought one's are quality, and a professional makes it. So they know what they're doing.
 I doesn't really  matter, I mean it has the same purpose, it does the same thing. I just matters on the worms.
 The only thing that  we really have to buy is the worms.
 Dylan and Ben, I got to admit, I do agree with Claire. Buying one would be a good quality and what do we know about, I know it says. . . what do we know, about...
 Now, where are you guys in your conversation?
 We're deciding  to do wood, metal, or plastic. But he said that the wood would rot and the metal could rust.
 It could rust  because of the moistness of the compost.
 Okay.
 It's not metal.
 We're not talking about metal.
 So we might do plastic.
 On what?
 If we make it.
 Purchasing one?
 No, if we make our own. 
 But this one is award-winning. 
 Seventy dollars.
 All right, and did you know what website you found that so you could share it as a class? 
 This is buying a vermicomposter that would cost $70. And what did you say about yours?
 This is about like $20, because we need two of these eight to 10 gallon plastic storage boxes. And we need two of them, and it says the cost is about five dollars each. And that would save us a lot so we could get Weebly pro, tools, and then maybe later on we could by the reusable bags.
 So what are your thoughts on helping the whole community?
 I think we should build this because it's better and we would have more money left over.
 And how would you spend the other money left over?
 I would spend it on like, stuff that we need for composting, like for tools.
 Okay, wait, we have multiple conversations going here in this group. So let's wait.
 I would spend  it on the tools, Weebly Pro, and if we have some money left over we could probably get more from the compost. And then we could get that tea thing that gets the tea out. And that way you could get more money. And then we could get something else.
 What's Weebly Pro?
 It's like an extra, you can search it up on Google.
 Isn't it a website?
 It's 26 compost, and then you can have a many slides as you want, videos. And then we can sell our compost on the internet, and that would help a lot.
 So, how is the Weebly Pro better than the Weebly that we already have? Because you were the webmaster on the class website, on the composting website. And you want to, what do you want us to do?
 We can have,  buy the six-month plan, and then the guys for next year, they figure it out.
 And how would us buying the Weebly Pro help the community?
 It would help us  to sell it and to inform about compost.
 Okay, any other comments or thought?
 We could,  it could maybe inform the people more because we could make a video of how to compost so they could make their own.
 Okay, inform who? Be more specific.
 The viewers of the website.
 All of our guests?
 Yeah.
 There's a  greater chance it's not gonna fail.
 Guys, we're not playing the what-if game.
 I not saying,  but we have a chance that the cups might break, because they're cups and they have an easier chance,
 It has a  bigger chance of not failing.
 We have to take risks. We have to.
 Plus, you would have the pride of making your own. 
 If we make our own,  and we mess up, then we're just wasting money.
 What if, what if, what if, what it.
 I'm not doing the what-if!
 ' Cause remember last time when we built a-- 
 If you make it,  there is a greater chance you will fail.
 Maybe instead  of cups, we use PVC pipes. I mean, they're that cheap, and I mean they would hold longer than styrofoam cups. 
 Shhh, too many people.
 That's better quality.
 I do agree with you, Adam, but I also do agree with Dylan and Ben on two different subjects.
 Guys, why don't  we just make everything? We can make the compost bin,
 But if we make everything,
 reusable bags. 
 Why don't we buy  the vermicomposter, and then we make the bags?
 The reusable  bags are more like, for people to buy if they want to have an easy reusable bag. And then the tools, we might really need later on when we don't need the reusable bags. We might need the tools, or we said, we might need to go buy this now, and it might be too late already.
 What's the major difference between the vermicomposter and the reusable bags? Jessica, what's the major difference between the two?
 In vermicomposting, it keeps reproducing, there's three products. While the reusable bags, when you sell them once, and that's all you get from that bag.
 And with the  vermicomposter, it keeps going. It's very unlikely, almost impossible, that all the worms are going to die in one night.
 Plus,why would  you buy the bags if you can make them? 'Cause my mom has a friend that makes her own bags out of store bags, like Walmart and Target bags. And she melts them down and puts them into a bag.
 Why don't we  buy the vermicomposter so it's a better quality, and we make the bags? They're easier.
 It's very hard  to find a perfect vermicomposter that's plastic and won't break. Most of them are terracotta and they'll shatter if somebody knocks it over. It's also wood, and wood will start to absorb the smells of the compost and then it will start to smell bad.
 How do you know  we're going to do wood?
 Compost things on  the internet are using either terracotta or wood. Terracotta shatters really easily. 
 Okay, so we need to do more research on this.
 I found a four-tray  bin that's plastic for $89.99.
 But still, why  would we pay $100, when we can pay. . .
 For quality.
 ...a mere $20. 
 I know,  but the materials we use aren't made for composting.
 Listen to Carly for a second. What Carly?
 Because if  we do what Ben's mom's friend can do, you could easily save more money like you do if you make the vermicomposter.
 Do you think you could get your mom's friend to come in and teach us as a class on how to make our own like she already does? 
 I think we should buy the vermicomposter first, like buy it or make it, and then buy the reusable bags. So, just like Ben's mom's friend's bags.
 But we should make them both, because then we will still have some money left over to buy other things like tools.
 Like a new aerator.
 If we make the reusable bags we won't get to put our symbol on it, which I think is part of the bag.
 We're thinking  about doing ovens.
 'Cause it's like one, two, three, four, five, six.
 If we made it, we wouldn't have a guarantee that it would work, because we could screw up the way we make it. Or we could just mess it up in general. But if we bought one, it would be kind of guaranteed to work.
 But sometimes  we miss a part, or a tool that we need to put it together.
 How do you know that sometimes, what experience do you have that sometimes all the parts aren't always there?
 Because  when we were making the other one and forgot one of the tools, so we couldn't do one part of it. And then it just all got all messed up.
 It just threw us off.
 So from your experience you know that sometimes when we order something, we don't always get it.
 This part is the leading thing right there, it comes built. All we have to do it put the plastic bars together, and it will be kind of easy. 'Cause it just like, goes. Yeah, and you can work as a group to make it. Because it's like those styrofoams where you pull it together. And you can just see where it's put together, the sticks.
 Like the couplers on the sides.
 So, we have  something to be proud of that we made.
 Everybody said  that we wanted a see-through one so we could actually see the dirt.
 And this one's not see-through. So, if we made our own, could we get a clear tote? 
 ...'cause the worms  don't like light. So you can lift to look. And the worms don't like light, so when you look at it, lift it up, look at it and then put it back down.
 That's a good idea. No one else has thought about that, Christian. And how do you know that the worms don't like light?
 Because we looked it up on the internet.
 And then one time  I was in my house, and I saw a worm out in the street, and it was kind of like rattling, rattling in the sun. So then my sister kicked it in, back in the grass. So then it was much happier and I re-research that.
 Okay, but  do we have to do vermicompost?
 No, we don't have to do it at all. It's going to be our class. We need to vote on what's going to be the best for the community.
 What about reusable bags?
 I think the  reusable bags are .
 And why? How is the reusable bags different than what we're already doing?
 If we sell the,  if the people next year sell them at the Holiday Boutique, then if we sell compost, then it would be the same customers. And if we give the customer something different more people will come because, they'll yeah, and they need bags.
 They could buy bags to put their stuff in that they buy?
 And for backpacks and stuff for when they go grocery shopping they need something to put them in instead of just wasting all those plastic bag. They could use the reusable bag.
 I have an idea, I think we should stick with our old compost in our tumbler, And then we should get the bags. And we should have the compost and the bags of compost tea. And then they could buy the bags, and they could buy the compost, and they could have the compost tea in the bag and they could carry it so it's not that hard.
 So we could use our bags as the packaging for the compost?
 Yeah, that's  what I was thinking.
 It's gonna cost extra.
 And then  make it just a bit more expensive 'cause then you get to keep the reusable bag and the compost.
 You know, if you put your money in the bank they give you money? This would basically give you money, because you can make the compost, yeah the interest, yeah. So we can get the money from this, and then we can buy the bags for the high-level tea.
 But that has no  holes for the worms. The sun is coming right into--  But would it fit in our room?
 So, we need to get more information on this.
 Remember we were talking about the internet could be wrong about its size?
 Yeah, but normally they don't do false advertisement,
 This is like in a this-- --the bottom is like this size of a desk.
 You could compare this to this vase or this container that they would put the plant in.
 It's like a shower, it's like the size of a shower.
 Yeah, you guys need more information.
 We need more information before you can make a decision on that?
 A lot of information on this already.
 But we won't  make tea if this one would have really worked, cause it's made. You know, the more it costs the better it works.
 Do you agree with his comment?
 No.
 Yeah, that's what Cara said. 
 Can anyone give an example?
 I don't agree  with that, because when I was real little I bought some toy cars and they didn't work as well as I got--some that were cheaper. And the cheaper ones worked better than the expensive ones.
 Okay, you guys continue discussing that.
