Now, what you just did was count how many times you made a successful... Eric... ...you made a successful throw and how many times you made a successful catch, out of 10. All right, we're going to use that information that you just gathered to answer the questions on this form that you've got. You each should have your own reflection sheet, all right, and I'm going to allow you to as a group, as a partnership, I'm going to allow you to talk about the answers together, which is just fine, because with your partner helping you, you might learn something about your throwing ability, or catching ability, that you might not have picked up on your own. All right so...  Now, if you look at the backside, if you start here,  each of you should have your sheet in front of you, OK and you should have a pencil or you have  and I'm going to read this to you to help you best understand it. This is a chart to help you gauge your abilities and for your progress from the start of throwing the Frisbee up to this point. It's broken up into four categories. One, you see where I'm pointing at here. It says, Beginning; Two, Developing; Three, Proficient; and Four, Excellent. So the question you have to ask yourself is, "Am I still in beginning stages of throwing Frisbee?" In other words, do I use correct Frisbee throwing form sometimes? Two, it says, "Do I use correct form "some to most of the time?" Three, proficient. Do I use correct form when throwing the Frisbee or catching the Frisbee most of the time? And four, excellent. Do I use correct form all of the time? All right. So this is what you are going to test yourself on. I'll read it to you, and as I read it to you I want you to mark the boxes. Again, you can talk to your partner and make this assessment with your partner if you'd like. So sitting with your partner, you're talking about it. I'm going to read it as we go. Number one, movement. Do you move to meet the Frisbee's expected location? Are you at the beginning stages of that, developing stages, proficient stages, or are you excellent at it? Do you always move to meet the Frisbee's location? Sometimes, most of the time, or rarely? Give yourself a check in the box of where you think that belongs. Body position. OK, this is how you position yourself to the oncoming Frisbee aside from moving to it, this is how you square your body with it. Are you in the beginning stages, where you rarely do it well, are you in the developing stages, where you do it sometimes, the proficient stages, where you do it most of the time, or are you in the excellent stage where you do it all of the time? Ask yourself that question. Feel free to discuss it with your partner. All right, so you should be checking the boxes. You should be checking the boxes. That's right there.
 The boxes are already checked.
Next, Hand position. When catching the Frisbee, do you use proper hand positioning with your palms together, fingers opening, rarely? That makes you in the beginning stage. Sometimes? That's your developing stage. Do you do it most of the time? That puts you in the proficient stage. Do you do it always? That puts you in the excellent stage. What do you think? What is your target? What would you put a grade on? Now when it comes to the throwing, the same things apply. Your stance and your elbow. Are you at the beginning? And I'm not going to go into detail with each one of these now, I think you get the idea of how these check . Are you at the beginning stage, the developing stage, the proficient stage, or the excellent stage? When it comes to your stance and your elbow position. When it comes to wrist snap and point OK what stage are you at? Are you rarely, sometimes, mostly, or always? Again, beginning, developing, proficient, or excellent? And then lastly, when it comes to releasing the Frisbee what stage do you think you're at: the beginning, the developing, the proficient, or the excellent? So I want you to just think about that reflect on that, but I'm not grading you on this. I'm not grading you on your ability. Hey, Mike, would you sit up for me? Thanks bud. I want you just to reflect on what you have learned and your ability. All right? Now, with your partner, I want you to turn the page over and it says Frisbee throw reflections, OK, and then we have some questions that we need to answer. We discussed what angular momentum was, we discussed what force absorption was, and we discussed what force reduction was. With your partner, I want you to answer those questions that you see, one through seven. Number one: why is angular momentum important? Two: describe force reduction. Three: describe force absorption. Four: considering... You don't have to do this... I'm just reading them out loud before you do it. Considering the fitness components of speed, agility, endurance, and balance, to which sports would you compare Ultimate Frisbee? If you think about when we were playing Ultimate, the game of Ultimate, what sports would you compare that to?
 Football!
No, you have... do it with your partner. And a couple more questions. Where can Frisbee be played for fun? What are two popular Frisbee activities that you are aware of? You already know one that we played in class. You might know of another two. And then lastly, based on the activity you did just before we sat here, how many times did you catch your Frisbee out of 10 and how many times did you accurately throw the Frisbee out of 10? OK? So go ahead with your partner and go ahead and start answering those questions to the best of your ability. You guys should be working off one another and sharing your answers, ready, set, go. 
 Do we basically 
No, just rewrite it.
 Force absorption?
You absorb the force when you . Describe force absorption.
 
Yeah, OK, start with that and maybe go a little farther and describe what makes it...
