 So how is that energy?
 Different things like jules. Which are increments, which are similar. 
 kilowatts hours and BCU
 Okay.
 You could also measure it with a thermometer, if it's kinetic energy sometimes
 Okay.
 I have an cubic feet, tons, and gallons, too.
 That's mass. And volume
 Oh, cause it was like... 
 Hold on. 
 Totally different thing
 I don't remember 
 While she's looking at that, what are some cons of nuclear energy that most people are concerned about?
 Well, there are no  no explosions. That's a totally different process with nuclear bombs and nuclear power.
 Oh, I have...
 And it states, in lots of articles, about nuclear waste, that it produces very little waste. At all.
 Well I have a cubic feet, it's for like, natural gas. Tons is measured for coal. Kilowatts hours is for electricity.
 It doesn't  pollute the air. You could inject the water back into the earth to reuse it. Like you could put the water back in and keep reusing it. And then, the disadvantages for geothermal energy is, the gasses that are released smell bad and efficiency is only 15%, which isn't, it's not that great. And there's a limitation of it. You can't just like keep reusing it and reusing it.
 I think that would  be like a possibility for a scenario, but like, we don't know if it's warm enough to be able to do that.
 Yeah, if there  was a good spot around our area, it might be good but--
 How would you know if your area was a good spot?
 I don't know. They would have to do tests and stuff
 Plus, I don't know that people would want it in their backyard.
 It's hard because, Cranberry, if we're thinking of where those people, well, like a civilized area. People really don't want something--
 That smells bad.
 Yeah, that. They don't want any disruption.
 And where are you most likely going to see geothermal energy come from? There are--
 Inside of the earth.
 Right, but it's inside of the earth, but it comes out in what ways?
 In geysers.
 In geysers, or what else?
 I'm not sure.
 Volcanoes.
 Oh.
 Yeah, so, who, that's definitely something. You don't have volcanoes everywhere either.
 Yeah.
 Right? And you definitely wouldn't want that in your backyard.
 And sometimes, if there would be a good area, maybe the state, or the country, would buy the property to like put it there, because it's a good spot. Sometimes they do that for like mining and stuff. They like buy the property.
 Okay, Okay. 
 I had hydro-electric. And some of the pros that is, it doesn't pollute at all. And the actual running of the power plant is really cheap. And then it's really reliable. So, say there was a big power-outage in the area, the hydro-electric power plant could get that running again. But, it's run by building dams in rivers and they're extremely expensive to build, which can be fixed by partnering up with someone else who needs that. A different, a business or something. But it can also cause flooding upstream for the animals, and people, and houses.
 I have a question for you. Do you have to have like a big river or could you use like a little creek like we have around here?
 I don't think you could necessarily use the creek.
 The Connoquenessing?
 Yeah, but, yeah you have to have like a big river. and it has to be fairly out of the way.
 Would it like cause flooding?
 Yeah, you couldn't have any houses really upstream, because could--they'd flood.
 And for example, your science book says that the Hoover Dam, which is on the Colorado River, it created a waterfall of 400 feet, which is more than twice as high as the Niagara Falls. So you're talking about a river that you would have to be able to create that drop, because the water creates the kinetic energy. Am I saying that right?
 Yeah.
 And that's what causes the electricity.
 Correct.
 So, if you could create something like that with the three rivers we have here, that might, that might work.
 And again the whole--
 Yeah, the three rivers, that could do it, because there's a bunch of big rivers in Pittsburgh.
Yeah.
 Yeah, but if you build that up, wouldn't that flood?
 Well, not in the middle of the city, you could maybe do it like out of the city, cause the rivers aren't just like in the city, they go out.
 And also, if you have a good area, flooding wouldn't matter so much, if you pick the right area. Which I mean, I guess, the whole thing...  So definitely not in Cranberry, here. Where we live.
 Well we get a  lot of rain around here, so, I'm just... like flooding would be like a problem.
 Yeah.
 We're sort  of in a drought right now, there's not been a big rain for a long time.
 Does it harm the  animals that are in the river?
 It's better for  farmers because down the streams the water is deeper and there's more fish and stuff, but there's less... plants and stuff. Like upstream it floods the animals and homes, and so it doesn't really hurt too much down stream. I guess it depends, because the farmers need deeper waters, but not if there's less life in it. Because that's what they're trying to achieve. 
 Rachel tell us about yours
 My energy is fossil fuels. The pros were that it's the most effiecent of most of the energy sources we can use. It's easy to find if you know, in the general area, of where it's at. It makes up half, or more, of our energy, in the United States. The cons are that it's non-renewable. There's a limited supply. It makes a lot of pollution when it's mined. It's expensive to transport. It harms aquatic life with pollution. It takes millions of years to form.
 That's something I didn't know about fossil fuels, that it takes a very long time to develop.
 It has to be, like, compacted.
 Uh-huh.
 So maybe the big plant, it might be able to, not might be able, it would probably run out fast, if we started using it a lot, so there wouldn't be a point in making this huge plant, and then it just run out.
 Yeah.
 So it might be  something people would use more often in the future. Just little by little, like just for little things. What do you mainly use it for? Like energy, but like...
 What falls under the umbrella of fossil fuels?
 Coals and oils.
 And natural gas.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 And you said it   when you mine it, so we would have to transport it here. There's so many people that live here that wouldn't want that.
 Isn't that what  happened in Mexico? What's that called? The Gulf of Mexico, yeah. Weren't they mining for fossil fuels, like oil?
 Oil, yeah.
 And that happens,  so that's like a natural disaster. And that's happened a bunch of times, so it's not that safe. 
 So for our scenario, what do you think would be the best two?
 Maybe nuclear  around here, out of the way a little so it wouldn't create any huge explosions. 
 So thermal energy  transfers into electrical energy
 So it's kind  of like biomass, cause they both, you burn both of them, except yours you use--
 Mine's not renewable
 Yeah, yours,  you use like uhm... What's it called?
 Like plants?
 Fossilized  plants and stuff. And for biomass you just use waste or woods scraps and stuff like that.
 Actually, isn't the, isn't the fossilized, or fossil fuels, or whatever, don't they keep on making them?
 Yeah, fossilized,  yeah, but it can't, it takes so long to make them, because you need all the pressure and the decomposing, like plants and animals, that once it runs out, it's going to take a while for us to get more.
 Like thousands of years, it takes to replenish.
 Yeah. 
 It takes a long time.
 Yeah, it takes a very long time, for sure.
 So I think,  Keeton, I don't think yours would be the best for our community to use.
 It's running out anyway, yeah, so.
 How much pollution does it cause?
 A lot.
 Why does the world  just use it, if it's running out?
 Why waste it?
 We talked about the efficiency. What's the efficiency cost of fossil fuels?
 I wasn't sure. I couldn't find the exact-- Uh, 38 to 47%.
 That's actually really good. cause like biomass was only 22 to 30 or something.
 So that may have something to do with what your decision is, right? The efficiency of the energy.
 I think so.
 I just . You should save some of it. You don't need to save it but it's not that good of an idea, to rely on this energy source that's not going to last forever.
 That's why I say,  you could also use that as a backup plan, because if we use something that's renewable, like Katelyn's, or something, but something like a disaster happens that could always be our, just our fall back. That we know we could use that if we have to. Just like an emergency generator. It's like, you know it's there, if you need it, you can use it, and it can last for a little bit.
 Since it  is running out, would you guys say that it would be better for us to use it now or save it in case--
 Oh, definitely save it.
 Save it.
 I say save it, too.
 Now I actually  think save it, because--
 I think probably save it.
 I would say to  save it because if something would happen and then you would need to use that specific type then you'll be able to go back to it, but if you use it all, then you couldn't go back to it.
 So, what are you all proposing as your primary energy source?
 Biomass.
 Okay.
 Cause it doesn't cause that much pollution.
 And then they  harness that pollution like Katelyn said. They capture it and then they use it for different things, like growing trees or--
 Cause the  only thing that, the only pollution that really comes from it is carbon dioxide. And they have a way of capturing the carbon dioxide and using it to fabricate metal and create paper and use it in greenhouses and stuff.
 Wow, interesting.
 Yeah, I  thought that was pretty good.
 So I think Katelyn's definitely provides the most for the community, definitely out of all.
 Yeah, I   ...have high effiecency rates so you'll be able to get like a lot of usable energy out of it.
 Yeah.
  ...the Colorado River, isn't actually renewable energy's that good of an efficiency rating.
 Actually, actually the... the hydro-electric energy is nearly 95% efficient.
 Wow.
 Once you build it,  since tidal doesn't use any fuel either It's just once you built it, but the down side on building is it costs so much. So, I don't understand why people would want to use that amount of money whenever because you could use that on different things. You could do it to create more biomass. Like if you wanna try to look up ways to make that fossil, plant roots, or plants, just, try to find research to make that happen more quickly. speed up the process, so it wouldn't be a non-renewable resource like fossil fuels or anything.
 There's no, they said, the small streams and like rivers and stuff like that, they only create like a small amount of energy, and so we can't really do that in Silicone Valley... 
 What about the three rivers in Pittsburgh? Could we not somehow harness that?
 We were talking about that.
 I was like  talking about redirecting the river.
 Redirecting the river.
 Just making one big one.
 Yeah.
 I think that we  would be able to use the three rivers in Pittsburgh, because they're all pretty big rivers, so if we just put like one dam in there, and then we harness the energy from all three, I think that we could get a lot of energy from it.
 I don't think it'd  be enough energy, like to completely rely on it. I think that we'd still have to use other resources, to still create energy because I know the title, it only creates 10 hours of energy a day, but I don't know if that means, like, an hour of that energy runs like a power plant. It didn't exactly say how much energy is used to do one thing. So, I don't, I don't think that'd be a good idea, to completely rely on that, and put it in the three rivers.
 And doesn't then, the, with the title energy, too, there has to be a difference in the--
 The low and high
 Difference in the low and the high.
 Yeah, three meters of low and high.
 Yeah, so where did you, find out where in the world there is that difference?
 Yeah. They  said the biggest title... it was in France or something. But we don't have any in the United States because we don't have an area that we can put it in that has that big of a difference.
 Oh, wow.
 So there's none used in the United States, and I don't think we could use that, then.
 Well, what you were  saying before about how, like, each energy source, we basically have to fall back on another one.
 Yeah.
 Because none  of them we could completely rely on, to supply all of our energy. I think that we would definitely need at least two choices.
 At least two. And if we had to pick two, I would pick biomass and then your nuclear because you said a little amount takes it a long way.
 Yeah, like  you only need a little bit, and it can produce a lot of energy. And the efficiency rating's pretty high. It's like 35%, so, yeah.
 Wow, that is pretty high.
 Remember you  said it was like really hazardous?
 Yeah, it doesn't produce a lot of air pollution, or greenhouse gases, but if like one small accident is made, then it can cause like a really big disaster, which would be bad for a community of people, since there are so many people in it.
 I think that--
 Katelyn and  Kelsey were talking about like  different kinds of energy sources, and according to issels, uh, issues...
