We are now getting into Earth, Sun, and Moon interactions. We have done one thing, well, we have done several things, all year, on that first slide, which you copied onto your board. What is it?
The moon phases.
The moon phases. You do the moon phases every day. So, you should be pretty familiar with moon phases, what they are, how they happen, all that good stuff. We get to move on. Okay. Let’s start with something you do know. What is a moon phase? Tom.
It’s what, well, it’s technically, when you look up in the sky, and, like, what light you see in the moon.
Good. What light you see in the moon. Where does the light come from? The green she’s reflecting.
The sun?
The sun. How does that work?
The sun shines on the moon and reflects back.
Good, the sun shines on the moon and reflects back. So, that’s how we see the moon. Do you agree with that? I see most of you agree. Good. Okay. Then, if we know that it comes from the sun, why don’t you tell me some of the moon phases, so we can build on what you just told me. What are some of the moon phases? This one should be easy.
Waxing crescent.
Waxing crescent, excellent. Aisha?
Waxing gibbous.
Waxing gibbous, very good. Grillen?
Waning crescent.
Waning crescent. Bailey?
Full moon.
Full moon. Tom?
Waning gibbous.
Waning gibbous. Ramos?
1st quarter.
1st quarter, excellent.
New moon.
New moon, excellent.
Last quarter.
Last quarter.
Third quarter.
Third quarter and last quarter, very good. When we talked in the last class, some of you said, “Second quarter!” Then, the second quarter is half time, so, that would be what moon phase?  What’s halfway in between first and third?  What moon phase is that? 
Full moon?
Yay, full moon, yay!  Yeah, just start spouting everything out, and then, eventually, you’ll be right. That works for me. Yeah, it’s a full moon. Get it, half, full? Or not, okay. So, we have all these moon phases. How can you tell which one’s which? Why don’t you just look up and say, “Yay, it’s a fingernail!” How do you tell which one’s which?
Because different moon phases look different.
How does it look different?
Because--
It’s okay.
Because different parts of the moon have light on it, in different amounts.
Okay, different parts of the moon have different amounts of light on it. How would I be able to tell a waxing something from a waning something?  You’re almost, almost there. Yeah?  
I think you will because the moon has different kinds of faces.
Good, very good. Different kinds of faces.
One lights up on the left side and the other lights up on the right side.
Which one lights up on the right side?
The waxing.
How do you know that?
Because, um... Well, you always told us it’s light on the right, it’s wax-iting.
Yeah, it’s light on the right, it’s wax-iting! Or, what you guys like to do...
Wax on, wane off.
Or, wane off. I don’t know, wax on. Okay? So, I don’t have a problem, I don’t think that you have a problem knowing the different phases of the moon. I think you guys are pretty set on that. How about what causes the phases of the moon? What makes that happen? You’ve already told me light reflecting off the moon that comes from the sun, but, why would you have parts? Why wouldn’t you just be able to see the whole thing, all the time? Sean.
Because the earth blocks out some of the light that’s coming from the moon.
Okay, good. Brenda?
Because the earth rotates with time, and when the earth rotates, the earth blocks the sun, so you can see, maybe, at the top of the moon.
Okay, good. Tom?
There are other stars shining in different directions, not just the sun.
Okay, very good. Stars shining at different directions. Anything else? Nancy.
Because the moon is moving, and so 
Okay, as the moon moves, we see different phases. So, I hear a lot of that the earth blocks the moon, the sun from reaching the moon. Are you in agreeance?
Yeah.
A little bit.
Yeah, yeah, somewhat? Okay. Here’s what we’re gonna do. You have won the experiment. You’ve done the flip camera. But, what I want you to do, on your table, everybody has, like a big lollipop. You either have the blue styrofoam ball, you have the big, white styrofoam ball, you have a little styrofoam ball. I want you, each person in your group to have one of those styrofoam balls. Okay? And then, you are going to come this way--
Down in your light paths?
You are gonna come up front, and gather around my lovely light bulb. Okay? Come forth, children.  And you might wanna squat down, if you’re near the front. Yay! I know it’s bright. Good?
Can’t see.
Oh, you can’t see, okay, alright. Oh,  Okay, what I want you to do, and you’re already doing it, hold it out in front of you, I want you to look at your moon. What am I holding in my left hand?
The sun.
The light bulb, the sun. You have the moon, yay. Here, hold it out in front of you. What moon phase do you have on your moon? Aisha?
New moon.
New moon. Why is it a new moon?
Because you can’t see any light.
You can’t see any light. I can see lots of light. It’s blinding me. Oh, there we go. But, there’s a light source. Isn’t my moon illuminated? Becky?
It’s illuminated on one side, but since you’re behind it, you don’t see any of the light coming--
Well, then, how do I know it’s illuminated?
Because you can see other light?
Oh! So, I look across from me, and I see Sean. Sean, you have a full moon.  Now, you’re supposed to disagree with me, and tell me that no, you don’t.
Oh, okay. Um...
What moon do you have?
A new moon.
No, you don’t, you have a full moon. 
He has a waxing moon.
No, he doesn’t, he has a full moon.  You all are crazy. Look.  It’s illuminated on the other side.  Okay. Oh, yeah, you could do that. But then, wouldn’t your head be in line with the earth?  It doesn’t make any sense.  But, that is one way that we can figure out that the moon is illuminated. Not that we have 15 different moons, or 28, or however many people we have. But, just because we’re looking at a new moon, doesn’t mean that the moon’s not illuminated, it’s just the other side. So, I look across, and I can see full moon across from me. What else can you see, from where you’re standing? Tell me what you see and where you see it. Yes.
Over there, with Zack and Sarah, I see fullmoon.
Okay, good.
Over there, I see a waning gibbous.
Really? I see a waxing gibbous. Uh, Becky.
I see a full moon, over at Zack.
Nice.
I see a waxing gibbous with Charlese.
I see a full moon.
Well, I see a waxing gibbous.
Why? Why do you see a waxing gibbous, and I see a full moon?
Because we’re in different places.
What’s that got to do with anything?  I thought y'all told me that we saw moon phases because the Earth's shadow blocks the sunlight from reaching the moon. How can we see moon phases then? Tiffany? Ooo... Kaitlyn?
Line of sight.
Line of sight? What does that mean?
Um...
Besides, your sight in a line. 
It's, um, well... Because sunlight's here, it looks like a new moon, but if the sunlight were, like over there, it wouldn't.
Huh? Interesting. Brooke.
Well, I'm just suspecting that Lauren turns kind of the moon out of view then, like I couldn't see a shadow I could only see the new moon.
Oh, because, oh, well, oh Lauren's head is in the way. 
Look at if the Earth was in the way that.
If the Earth was in the way, would that cause a moon phase?
Yeah.
Is the Earth in the way of the moon all the time?
No.
What could we call... Sorry.  What do we call it when we have the Earth and the moon and the sun lined up, or if the moon is blocking light from getting to the Earth, or if the Earth is blocking light from getting to the moon?  Bailey?
An eclipse.
An eclipse. Have we talked about an eclipse before?  A little bit. Just a little bit. So, is there anything in between me, well, is there anything between the moon and the sun? In my...
No.
No. vicinty, because if I ask you, you're gonna be like, "Yeah, Lauren's head is in the way."  "She's blocking all the light."  There's nothing in between me and the light source, yet all around you're saying you see different moon phases. Correct?
Mmm hmm.
Mmm hmm. I want you to think about that. Why you can see different phases on my styrofoam ball, but there's nothing in between us.
Because the moon and the earth is at a different angle.
Ooh. 'Cause the earth is at a different angle.
Because of our position?
Your positions. Very interesting. Here's what I'm willing to have you do. You all have a light bulb, some work, some don't I know there was at least one group in the last class that blew a light bulb.  So, you might have to share, but I'm gonna have you go back to your seats. Some of you have three people. Some of you have four people. Some of you have two. Daniel, you have three now. I want you to set yourselves up in an arrangement around your light bulb, where you personally can see four different moon phases, or three different moon phases, depending on how many people are in your group. So, you need to be able to see, if there are four of you, four different moon phases. You stand there. You hold it, and if you get it, raise your hand for me now.  Okay, that was your challenge. You don't have to fill anything. You don't have to do anything. Off you go. 
Try not to blow it.
Alright, move Michael.
Where do you think it's gonna be?
Put it like this. Okay.
It doesn't have a switch. It's just automatically on and off.
Yay, we made it.
Nice. 
Are we getting there?
Okay.
Okay, since you have four people, you're going to position yourselves differently than they are. They only have three. So, you're gonna think, think about a clock. Where on the clock will you put everybody, so you can all see four different moon phases, from your angle.
Well, one can go at twelve.
Twelve, twelve, six, and nine and three.
Like a cross.
Do it.
I don't think we can put anybody over there.
And then, tell me when you get it.
We can't put anybody over there. So, that'll be like twelve, this'll be like...
Well, we need a camera for it.
Right there, we're not using a camera.
Okay.
Well, now...
So Brenda can stand there, Brooke can..
Or, we can do, like, um, like, this kinda way. I'll be here. she'll be there, and she'll be there, and you'll be at the corner.
Yeah.
Okay.  So, take your moon.
It won't move until you stand there and hold it.
No, I see yours. New moon.   
No, it looks like a waxing.
Excellent, ladies and gentlemen, I have a group who has it. Ooo, it looks like I have another group who has it. Ooo I have another group who has it. Somebody tell me, If you equate it to a clock, where are you standing? Tell me what numbers you're standing on, Jamie.
Uh, oh...
Oh. Forget about that?  For one moment, we had it.
She's on number one. She's sitting at four.
On a clock.
She's nine. She's three, and six and twelve.
Good. So, one of the ways you can do it is, twelve, three, six, nine. You can do it that way. Or, you could actually scoot yourselves a little differently, you could rearrange yourselves and see something besides... What are you moon phases that you have?
Um, that's waxing gibbous
Waxing gibbous There's full moon, new moon, and this looks like...
I see full. I see new, and then if you're at nine and three, I should only be able to see  half. What would those things be?
Mmm...
Go ahead.
First and third quarter.
Good, first and third quarter. I want you guys to see if you can figure out different arrangements to make it--
Okay.
Something besides those four. And, you got it too.
Okay, we could...
Get a...
And then someone could be... Could be right there, and right there. 
Yeah. 
I see a full moon, I see a full moon.
I just see a full moon. Because your the light source.
I see a full moon, and a...
I see a full moon.
I just see a full moon.
Do you see a half moon here?
I see a full moon.
Well... 
Now, do you wanna switch out?
Okay, I'll take it.
Okay, it's blinding.
Ooo, yay. Oh, yeah. I see a new moon, and I like see a...
Everybody got it at least once. 
Yep.
Yep. Okay, do me a favor, unplug your light bulb, and come back to your group. 
Okay. Was there anything in between you, well, actually, your moon and your sun? 
No.
No. So, does your theory or your hypothesis that the Earth blocks the light from reaching the moon still work?
No.
Carolyn says no. Tom.
Technically it can work, because when you have a, I forgot what kinda eclipse it's called, but it's an eclipse of the moon it goes, like, all red or something, we had it this year, and the Arth, Earth, arth... The Earth is blocking it in a way worse.
Okay, so is that going to change the phase of the moon, nightly? Becky.
No.
She says no. Do you agree? So what changes the phase of the moon? Ben?
The way we see it from Earth.
The way we see it from Earth. Agree?
Yes.
Ah, interesting. Now, when you did the experiment before, when you did it with a flip camera, we're gonna re-watch some of those videos. I'm just gonna do the montage, so it's not necessarily gonna be your entire class, but we're gonna go through, and you need to critique each one. You need to figure out do they do something wrong? Do they do something correct? Do you need to do something with that? Do you need to re-think your flip camera video? Because, we're gonna do it again after we get finished with this. Make sense? Are you sure?
Mmm hmm.
Are you positive?
Mmm hmm.
Let's watch the first one.  Okay. Let me play it for you again. See the phases?
Yeah. 
Alright, now. I want you to tell me. Besides being blinded. What did they do correct? What was right?
They were in a orbit not around the sun, just a orbit.
Excellent, they were not orbiting around the sun, a.k.a. the lightbulb. What did they do incorrect?
They didn't call out the phases.
Okay, they didn't call out the phases.
They didn't orbit, orbit the camera.
They did. The camera was in the middle. So, it went around. So, that's okay. Think about that. They went around. There's even something wrong...
