Tell them what you wrote. Describe your three pictures, and then they're going to share what they saw, and the three pictures they picked.

The cat.
I picked the roller coaster.
Man.
What did you get for what ?
I only did two.

I think the Earth .

Y'all did the roller coaster?
 Max, is that possible? Why not, what did you write?
 There's no gravity.
 So, in that picture he's weightless, but where is he?
 In front of a building.
 So, he's on a planet, right?
 Yeah.
 So, what should happen, if this was a video and we saw the next two seconds of that video?
 He's falling?
 He should fall, right? All right, write that down next to that picture.

I don't mean to do that.
 All right, so let's look at the roller coaster.
He couldn't even fall like that because you got the gravity pushing down, so that's why why he wouldn't fall like that. And that's either like, strange stuff. But I don't think he could fall like that.
Unless he... .
He can't fall like that. That's impossible. Get his weight, and . Yeah, exactly, 'cause he can't do that. Yeah, 'cause you can see his shadow under that. And don't think he, I think he got like a hoop or something. So, like a little string or something.
Or like, he fall?
Yeah, 'cause he can't do that. They must have took that while he was. 'Cause that's impossible. Earth's gravity pulling him like that. Unless he in space or something.

 All right, so why would he fall?
Because the force of gravity pushing down.
 So, why would he fall that way and not fall that way?
The gravity would push him down, and not up, so . There's like, there's gravity on Earth, so like if you consider, like how Newton found the apple when it fell to the ground.
 Okay, so you know there's something going on that's pulling you down. And you say, "What if you were on the "other side of the Earth?" Would it be pulling you up then? If you were on the other side? Or, would it still pull you down to the ground?
It would still pull you down  to the ground.
 All right, so on the planet, what can we say about gravity? Where is it trying to pull you?
To the center.
Ah, to the center, so it doesn't matter where you stand, it's not pulling you down, it's just trying to pull you where?
To the center.
To the center, okay. All right, one more minute for sharing. Make sure you have three pictures described on your T-chart. If you need to borrow an idea from your neighbor, do that now.
 And you got the Solar System? Okay so, it says planets can move because of gravity. Where are they moving?

  around the sun. And what has them go in a circle and not flying away? All right, who would like to share what they wrote with their group? Their favorite one, their favorite picture? All right, Arquel, which one was your favorite picture?
 The roller coaster.
Roller coaster, who picked roller coaster? All right, so let's all look at the roller coaster. And Arquel, tell us what your team wrote down and Sarah will add it to our list.
 We had put that the gravity brings the speed to the... to the roller coaster. So, if you wanted to make the speed increase, you would want to bring your hill higher. So, therefore the... the speed will increase and it'll go faster.
 All right, so Arquel says that gravity makes roller coasters go faster? So, if you want a faster roller coaster, you need to build a higher roller coaster. Did anybody write anything different for roller coaster? Carlos, what did you write?
 Oh, the same thing, but the steepness of the hill when it's going down it increases its velocity, and it's more G's.
 All right, so he says the steeper the hill, more velocity, more G's. What's a G? Let's have Carlos try first, then we can help him out if he needs help. What's a G? You said G.
 Yeah. A G is a pull.
Okay, so it's a pull. Adriana, you want to add to it?
It's a force pushing against you.
All right, pushing against you. Anybody else want to add to that? It's a pull, its a force, it's pushing against you. How do we get a G force? What do you think, Austin?
 You have a push or pull, you have excess friction, air accelerates.
Push or pull, excess friction. Arquel?
All the forces together.
All the forces put together on you? Okay. So, let's write "G force" down and put a question. 'Cause we're still not sure what that is, maybe we can get there. So, we're not sure quite what a G is. But we know it has something to do with gravity. All right, let's pick another picture. Who had a favorite picture that we haven't talked about that wasn't a roller coaster? What was your favorite picture, Greg?
 The dude.
The dude, who is the dude?

He has a name. We know who that is. Who is that, Enrique?
 Johnson.
 It was Newton, right? What was Newton's first name? Not John.
 Isaac?
 Issac, there we go. Issac Newton, all right. And what does the dude say? Isaac Newton? What's he saying? What's his quote?
 Not that dude, this one.
Oh, the floating dude. Okay, the floating dude. He'd rather talk about the floating dude above Isaac Newton. Okay, so let's look at the guy floating in the middle of the air. He looks like he's planking. Is this a possible picture if you just saw the picture?
 No.
Greg, why do you say this is impossible? Because the Earth's gravitational pull, right?
Okay, so he says the Earth's gravitational pull, what?
Like, this wouldn't work because when you pull... .
Okay, he should be being pulled down to the center of the Earth. Why do you say the center?
'Cause that's where the gravitational pull's coming from.
'Cause that's where all the gravity wants to take you and that's where all the gravity's coming from, I like that answer. Anybody want to add to it? Vanessa.
 But if you have pressure against both forces, you could possibly stay up longer?
Okay, so how could you get pressure to make you stay up longer? Chloe?
 Force?
 Where would that force come from?
Your body?
 So, how could he, if he's not touching the ground, make himself float? What's underneath you that you don't see?
 Gravity?
Well, we don't see gravity, but what's underneath him? It's around us right now.
 Air?
The air, right? So, let's think about the air. If we could make the air thicker, what would we also increase?
 The gravity?
 Not the gravity, we're trying  to go against the force of gravity.
 The weight? The force against our weight. What's that called, let's think about a boat. Floating in the water.
 Bouyance? Bouyant force, right? So, if you could increase the bouyant force of the air, and Vanessa said if you could make that strong enough, you should be able to float. Does anyone know a planet where there's more thick clouds than we have here? It's our neighbor.
 Mars.
He has clouds? Who has clouds, who has thick clouds? Jarissa?
Venus?
Venus. Yeah, is that what you were going to say? Venus has super thick clouds, right? And if we could go there, maybe there'd be enough air underneath you, that you could float in the air. If they was pushing enough bouyant force on your body, okay? All right, anymore for the floating guy? Did anybody write anything different for the guy who looked like he was floating in the air? I know that Karima and Anthony had a good answer. What did you guys write down Anthony?
Put that... I put that the gravity will pull you to the center of the Earth, and it will like... Like it would...
 It pulls you to the center of the Earth, and what did we decide about where you stand on Earth?
Like on the other side?
 So, what would happen if you went to the other side of the Earth? Would it still pull you the same way? Or is it going to pull you an opposite way?
The same way.
 The same way, where is it always going to pull you?
Down.
 Towards the center?
 To the center, to the middle, okay? It doesn't matter what planet you stand on, doesn't matter where you are, it's trying to take you to the center of the object, okay? So, why do we get stuck to the Earth, and that the Earth's stuck to us in this picture?
'Cause the Earth's solid and it doesn't let us go out into the .
Okay, so he said the Earth is solid. Are we solid?
 Yes. Hmm, okay, so maybe it's not that we're solid, 'cause maybe there's something else going on. What do you think, Carlos?
 The Earth has more mass than us.
 The Earth has more mass than us. Jenny, what's mass?
 Mass is, well, all of us then?
 We all have it. How would you give a definition of mass, what is it about us?
 The type of weight?
 It's the type of weight. Okay, we're on the right track. Who wants to help her out? What's mass?
 The amount of density?
 Amount of density. Okay, we're getting better. Jarissa?
The amount of space that it takes.
 Well, what would that be, what's your space? Volume, okay? So, space is volume. We're still trying to figure out what's mass? We've heard some density words, we've heard volume words, what do you think, Ky?
The amount of electrons?
 Oh, we're getting closer. So, it's your electrons, your...?
 Atoms?
 Ah, your atoms. So, it's how many atoms you have inside your body. That's your mass. So, now someone else said weight, so let's go back to that. How do you get weight? So, you stand on the scale. How do you know your weight? What is going on? What do you think Hakeem?
 Pounds?
 We measure it in pounds? Okay, so how do me measure it? How do you get pounds? What's happening to your mass? What happens when you stand on the scale? What is it measuring?
 Your weight.
 Your weight. So, then how do we figure that out? What's going on? What's going on on a scale? Carlos.
 The gravity is pushing you down?
 Gravity is pushing you down. So, what happens to your weight, if you have more mass?
 You're heavier?
You're heavier. So, your weight, how would we give a description of weight now? We know mass is how many atoms you have. We know volume is how much space you take up. So, now what's weight? Carlos has kind of said it for us. How would we put it as a definition? It's the pull of what on your mass?
 Gravity?
Pull of gravity. So, let's look at the guy in the picture again. If this was going to be true, what would we have to say about his mass to be able to float? Would he be allowed to have a mass on Earth? Hakeem says "no," Vanessa says "yes." If you're going to float, and there's gravity, always trying to pull you down, in order to float, what do we have to do? With our mass? Decrease our mass, okay? So, let's think about if we go to another planet with our weight. Does your mass change if  you go to another planet?
 Yes, no.
Do all of a sudden, you have more atoms in you?
 No.
 Depending on the gravity.
What did you say?
 You have the same atoms, but your weight and mass changes.
You said the same amount of atoms, so your weight and mass changes. But if you have the same amount of atoms, isn't your mass the same?
 Yeah.
Okay, so what's the only thing that would change, Jarissa?
 The gravity.
The gravity, so then what would that change about your weight? Would it change, or would it stay the same?
 It would change.
 It will change. So, what can we say if we went to a smaller planet?
 You'll become lighter.
 You'll become lighter. Why?
 Because it has less gravity.
Has less gravity, so less pull. You weight less, okay? So, let's put "weightless" next to "G force" as another word we should look up. Ready? All right, so, what I want you to do now, using all your notes that we just took and what we just talked about, I want you to flip your paper over. And in the circle, I would like you to try with your partner, to write a definition for what you think gravity is. I'll give you one minute. You and your partner try to figure out what you think the definition of gravity is, and write that in your circle back.
 Make sure you guys share that, okay?
 A lot of weight, or... What's the other word of how many atoms you have? What's it pulling on? Very good, so it pulls on your mass. And think about where it's trying to pull. Oh, that's a good definition.
 of gravity, try to write your definition on your paper. Make sure your neighbor also has a definition on their paper.
 Pulls what? Pulls the...
 Weight?
 You almost said it.
 Mass?
 Mass.  Make sure you guys share that, okay? You guys done? Okay, so what is gravity? It's a force, so that means it's a what?
 A...
 A short pull? Gravity's pulling us, right? Okay, so what's, so what do you think, is it pushing or pulling?
 Pushing.
 Pulling.
 Ooh, we have a disagreement. Better figure out which ones right.
 Okay, so it's a pull. So, where is it trying to take you to?
 And what is it trying to take about? Your... Your definition. All right, what are you having?
I wrote that gravity is an invisible force that pushes or pulls you towards the center.
 Okay, so the word I want you to make sure we say is "invisible." 'Cause we'll talk about that, okay? All right, so let's share our definitions. Who would like to share their definition first? All right, Ky.
 We put gravity is a force that always brings you to the middle.
 All right, Gravity is a force that always brings you to the middle. So Sarah, can you add that to the circle? Arquel, what did you guys write?
 Gravity is a pulling force that brings you to the center of the Earth, and it wants to  the mass.
 Okay, so you added "mass" to that. Okay, so it's pulling on mass. What do you want to add Angel?
I want to add to Kyle's answer that it's invisible.
 Invisible. So, let's think about what we learned about forces. If it's invisible, you can't see it. Is it touching you?
 Yes.
Or is it everywhere?
 It's everywhere.
Everywhere. So, is it a contact force, or a non-contact force?
 Non-contact.
Why do you say that, Israel?
 Because it's not touching you.
It's not touching you. So, even if you're floating in outer space, will gravity still be there?
 Yes.
What do you think, Carlos?
 Yes. You say "yes." So, those astronauts, will they still feel some gravity? Even though they're out at the space station? What do you think, Angel?
Outer space has some gravity, but greater than, that's why they wouldn't feel it.
What do you think it depends on? We have mass so far. But the strength of gravity also depends on something else. We have mass, but what could it also depend on, Vanessa?
 Force?
Okay, gravity is a force. Angel was getting there, he was saying that it's still pulling on you, it's just not as strong.
 The weight?
That's mass. We talked about mass and weight. Trying to get the other thing that's going to control gravity.
 How big the planet is?
Okay, so that's mass. Let's think about the astronauts who are not as close to the Earth. Are they weightless? They have the same amount of mass, their mass didn't change. But they went farther away from the Earth. So, why are they weightless? Why do they float? What's the other factor going on with gravity? Moving away from the center of the Earth. So, what do we call that? Has to do with how the gravitational pull depends on... We have mass, and we're looking for the other factor we could change to change gravity. What do you guys think? If I'm really far away from Jarissa, am I able to grab her as much as if I was closer?
 No.
If I go real close to her, is it easier for me to pull on her?
 Yes.
But what happens if I go far away? I have the same mass, my mass doesn't change, can I reach her as easily now?
 No.
So, what's the other thing going on with gravity?
 Distance?
Distance. So, if you're far away from the Earth, can gravity pull on you as hard?
 No.
No. But the closer you get, the little bit stronger, little bit stronger. So, then why do we feel the pull of gravity here on Earth, but I don't feel the Sun?
 We're closer to the Earth than we are the Sun. So, we're going to feel the Earth before we would feel the Sun. But now if we left the planet, we started going somewhere else, say I was going to Mars. What would happen the closer I got to Mars? Who would start pulling me now?
 Mars.
The Mars center of its planet would start to pull me. Okay? So let's look at the picture of the planets. Thinking about pulling to the center, why in the picture of the planets is the Sun in the middle of all the planets?
 Because it's the biggest.
 Oh, it's the biggest one.
We got a couple of different answers, so let's share with our neighbor first. See if you know why the sun is in the center. You got 30 seconds.
It's got the biggest mass.
It got the biggest mass, and it's the biggest. So like, it got the most gravitational pull. That's why it's in the middle.

 All right, Marco. Why do you think the Sun is in the center of our solar system?
Because... I don't know.
 You don't know. Okay, Javier, what do you think? You're his partner, what did you guys talk about? Based on what we just talked about, why would the Sun go in the center?
It has more mass?
 It has more mass. So, what does it also have more?
 Gravity. So, he's always going to be in the middle, right? What if we had a bigger star come our way? Like what about a black hole? Say one of our neighbors blew up. One of our...
