Spanish, and you would know if, I mean, you would know what they're saying because you learn English, and you talk, you learn English and you know how to talk Spanish.
 I agree with you, because like, because like if they when you said that they had to read, write, and speak English, like they put something that, they put something that's English on your paper, you'd probably understand it more, so that's why I agree with you.
 But when they fill out the application, what if the application didn't 
Well,
 The application is about like where you're from, why are you coming here for, like they want to know a lot of information about you.
 I think we should, I think we should keep it at one, because if you fill out the application, you'll know more about people, and their birthday and stuff, like and then they usually bring them a present, 
Okay, so it's important to know about somebody. Now, the citizenship board might not go to their birthday party, but it is important to know when their birthday is, right? Okay, what were you saying, Ariel?
I think he must fill out an application, because...
 I think you should fill out an application so you can, so if you come to America, you can... If you come to America, they'll know when your birthday, where did you come from and stuff.
 Yeah, it's important to have that information. Why do you think we need to know where they came from?
 Because I think they wanted to know where they came from, because like if they came from a bad city, and they want to come to like a good city, and--
A city or a country?
A country.
A country, okay.
If they came from a bad country, and they wanted to join a good country, then you want to see like, they want to see like if they got like 
 If they were bad, like where they came from, that would be, yeah, they'd have to know that.
I think I would be  because like when they, like different countries have different holidays, so when they be out, like they be out celebrating, then nobody won't think nothing's wrong with it, because they're celebrating, and they don't know that on this day, that's when they're celebrating their country.
I didn't even think about that. We need to know about their culture, so that we can let them celebrate. That's important, too. Great conversation. So we're gonna keep that one or get rid of it?
We're gonna keep it.
Okay. So let's move onto the next step and see what you think about the next one.
That you have to live in the US, United States, for five years.
 I don't believe that you have to live in the United States for five years, because like if you're like, I'm  five years, if you're married, you're going to have to live for three years, but then like the reason why you should live in it five years, because like you could get used to the country and everything, that's what I think.
 I think that you should live in America for five years if you come from somewhere else, because like some people, they come here, and they see that they don't like it, and they try to move back to where they came from, and when they try to move back, somebody already took their house or something, and if they go, they ain't gonna have no money to come back because they're just gonna be outside homeless.
I think there will be some changes to live in the US. Two years, because if you're real old, if you're old, then they say that you might die in a couple years, then if you're staying here, if you have to stay here to become a citizen for five years, then it takes longer, then you wouldn't get the chances to make choices before you die.
 I think you should change, you have to live in the US, United States, for five years, because what if if the house is dirty, and it's not clean? Like if it's like the tub still got stains in it 
 Explain that a little bit more to me. So you said that you would change it to how many years?
 To one year.
To one year, becase if you got in a house that was dirty, you might want to do what?
 If the walls was still had stains on it--
Well what would you want to do then?
Move.
Okay, where would you move? Still in the United States, or back to your country?
 Still in the United States.
Okay, so you would still be there, so would you want to just stay, even though you move from place to place--
 I will--
Do you think you would change the number of years they're gonna be in the United States, or just not make them stay in the same place?
Not make them stay in the same place.
Okay, so we need to make sure that Ariel knows, do we have to stay in the same place for all five years?
No, not really.
No, okay.
 I think that if they I think that they should give them at least one year to figure out if they want to stay in that home or go back to where they used to live. So I mean, if they don't like it on the first day, so they won't have to go back again, come back to see, or come back, somebody else at your house. At your old house.
 I disagree with you, and I agree with you. The reason why I disagree with you, because they said still living three years just like if you're married, and I agree with you, because like when you said that they come from the first place, I mean, the first day they may not like it, and they could probably go back where they came from, that's why I disagree and agree with you.
 Okay, I think we should change it so if they look at their choice to go back to their home country for like two months, because then they'll miss their family members, then like when a couple days in their country, and nobody was doing it in America, then they could just go back to their country for like a month or something.
 So maybe you guys need to discuss how many years they should stay here in America, and maybe if they could, how long they could go to visit their relatives in other countries. Although I think those are all good things to keep discussing. So maybe make that decision on how many years, and then move onto the next one and I'll come back and see you.
 Here, but you you trying to become a citizen here, but you like want to, like you're trying to vote, like say if you lived in Germany, you're trying to go back to Germany. You can't, that's not being loyal to the US, because you're trying to become a citizen to the US, and you're trying to go back, if you was living in Germany, you're trying to go back to Germany. What do you think, guys?
Well,  because they have to want to say that, A, if you don't, then they won't have to send you back, because you have to be community and jobs so they can get you jobs and what to do and--
 I think that we should keep the rule, because say if your old country got in a war, you would say you tried to take up them, and you're already trying to become a citizen of the USA, and you take up for your old country, that makes you not become a citizen.
That don't mean if you're born in your like regular country, that don't mean like you can go back, go back and forth and take up for them, and then when we're having a war, you want to take up for us, you can't do that. You can't like, if you grew up in Germany, you can't take up for Germany, because you'e trying to be a citizen in the US now. You can't take up for Germany, even though you were born there. You got to take up for the US.
 Do you think that's hard for someone who came to the United States to forget about their old country? Woudl that be difficult?
 Yeah. In my opinion, I think that'd be difficullt because like with me, I can make a connection because when I went, when I had, when I used to live with my grandma, me and my momma, we used to live with my grandma, and I couldn't forget about the things that I did at my grandma's house, so my grandma and my cousins, but we still were around, but I couldn't stop, I couldn't forget about what the fun things that we did.
 Yeah, 
 So what should we put here?
 Well, I think we should keep it, because like you can't go back to your like regular country to do like, like you can't fight for the army, the army, they're trying to stay here to protect us, and you're already trying to become a citizen for the US. You can't like go back to Germany.
 Then we should keep that, because then so we should learn how to be nice? I don't know.
 Like, we could put, so that if like you grew up in Germany, you can't fight for Germany. So we're gonna put that.
 Okay.
 You have to be true to the US.
Be true to the US.
 How about the next one that says, "Have good moral character." Is that one that you would keep or get rid of?
 Get rid of. In my opinion, I'd get rid of that, because people, like that's like, that's like having like you gotta be like nice to people. Some people, they can't take it. Like, they can't take that, they can't like, people, like I can make a connection because my cousin, she got like ups and downs, because when people, they just like irritate her, and they be aggravating her, she can't take it no more, she just like, she just gotta get mad and stuff. Like people, they can't take having a moral character. Like my cousin, she can't do that because people, they be like bullying her and stuff, and she can't like keep like, she can't keep on standing right there and people keep on bullying her.
 Brittany, do you think we should keep it or leave it?
 I think we should, I think we should get rid of it. When I was in the suburbs with my godmother, she said that my godbrother was getting picked on in school by a bully, and he just felt like beating him up. What do you think, Adune?
Well, keep it, because like, why would you let some  people get away with most of that stuff? You're just gonna let them keep doing the same thing? And without the rule? Without that rule, everybody, people would just keep getting beat 
 So what I hear all of you saying is that you don't want people to get beaten, but you also said that sometimes it's hard to control your anger, so you can't, you're not always a good person all the time. Sometimes you make bad choices. Do you think we could maybe change that rule so that everybody would be happy with it?
 Yes, I think we should change it to like, like, when you're like around like older people, like elder, like older people, and like they're real old, you can like, like you can show like good moral character around them, but then when they like go and stuff, like when they're not gone, like when we was talking about immigrants on the, like they was on the boats, you don't know what type of people is on the boats. It can be like elder people, you never know. Like you can have good moral character around them, but like when you like, when you're like around your mother, don't she want you to respect you? Don't she want you to respect her?
 But, we should change the rule to like sometimes people can just like have a chance to get some people back that really did something really bad to them, or caused them to get hurt or something, so we should change the rule to like, it's kind of like hard for a name, but we should think about it.
 I think, I have a cause and effect for a good moral character. That's why they have like, if you have to fill out an application, that's why they're trying to like, that's why they're trying to like fill out an application to see if you got good moral character, or if you're cra--
