In the Lion King, like I was thinking about it, there's no democracy in any of the movie.
 No, there isn't.
Yeah, and how the Lion King's, like everything seems really British, you know, like very England, monarchy-type stuff. But in the Lion King, what bothered me is when it said like, the two hyenas, like Cheech from Cheech and Chong was one of them, and then Whoopi Goldberg was the other one. I was just like, how could they do that, and like not realize that they were feeding into this racial stereotype by being the voices of the hyenas? Like don't they think about that stuff?
 Yeah, I was thinking the same thing.
 Did you think about it before, when you first read Cinderella?
I think when I watched the Lion King, like I thought about it. I mean, even when I was little, I think it registered in my mind, like, "That's a black woman's voice. "Why would her voice be in this animal, "and not any of the other voices?"
 Right. I don't know Disney intentionally did this. They were building up into an already existing culture of racial stereotypes, so I think the mentality of that was why fix what's not been broken, and when they should have fixed it.
 But at the same time, Mufasa was that really, what's his name? James Earl Jones, who's like Morgan Freeman.
 Right, Mufasa was an evil--
Like if I had to pick a God, it would be James Earl Jones or Morgan Freeman.
 Mufasa was the good, Simba's father, right?
 Yeah. With like the really deep voice.
 You made a good point, though, about no democracy in Disney movies. There isn't, because there's no democracy in marketing. There's no democracy in the media. What are the six big media conglomerates? Disney.
 Disney, GE ...
What else?
 GE.
GE.
 Newscorp.
Yeah, Newscorp.
 Then Viacom.
Viacom.
 Time Warner.
And Time Warner.
 But why can't Cinderella be a first lady? Why does she have to be a queen? Like why can't she have some other magical power?
Why can't we instill some like, actual life in there?
But that's still not, this is still not the classic, but then I wouldn't be surprised if Disney will come up with another story.
 I hope they do.
Well, they came up with Tiana, right? Which added the gender stereo- the roles, the racial roles, or the racial stereotypes. Tiana is absolutely beautiful. The image. However, there are, again, the pre-existing culture and norms that Disney is too scared to move away from, because that has provided them or given them this 80 billion dollar industry. I did promise you a reading on, we do have time, I promised you a reading on China, as to what happens in China. Before I do that, I just want your input on the Disneyfication of children's culture, with the article that you read. I know you wanted to talk about it, you were really excited. If you have your article in front of you, you can use that. You can look at it. I also jotted down plenty of notes, but when you reflect on what we did today, I want you to think, these books, these books are books are media, music is media, videos are media, okay? Food for thought for next time when we have our discussion: Does media construct an image or a message? There's no right or wrong answer, but think about it. Does the media construct an image or a message? Okay? As you read your read articles. So, Hannah, to you, go ahead.
 The whole like Aladdin where, how they changed the verse, the lyrics, that was like awful.
 That was crazy!
Like, I think I have a different opinion from everybody, like, truth hurts, to me. I think it's just like, I don't care that it says that. Like, I didn't notice that, no one notices that while they're singing. Like, while they're singing that, no one like realizes, oh, "Cut off your ear."
 Kids don't. Like if your  was in--
And that actually happened back then, that actually happened.
 The ear one didn't bother me as much, because that's kind of true. But the whole, it's barbaric, the  like that was awful. It shouldn't be--
 Because if you think about where it is, if you look into the history, it is barbaric, and they used to do it. And in some places, they still do it. It's the whole Hammurabi, "An eye for an eye." You know, it's that culture.
 Yeah, it's true, it's true, so why not teach what actually happened?
But I don't really have a problem with it, I mean like--
But if that's the only way that you're looking at the Middle East, then that's wrong. Because they have a history with beautiful art, they invented math, and like they gave us all this wonderful stuff, that you can't just look at the problems that they have now, or the violence that was in their culture, because there's violence everywhere.
I mean, that's just stereotyping.
They cut people's ears off in the Middle Ages in England just as much as they did, or at least as the same.
They did worse things, probably, in the Middle Ages, than they did in cutting off people's ears.
It's just unfair that they portayed the Middle East like strictly as a barbaric, violent place in that song. It just makes it wrong.
 I think it was like in general, and it was because Arabia was so bad in an oasis like that.
 Yeah, they weren't specific, it was just "Arabia," but like it took, there was like Indian things about Aladdin that it wasn't supposed to be India, it was supposed to be like Israel, or totally different--
There were a lot of like Middle Eastern elements rolled into one, so it would make one thing, like if you went to the Middle East, if you went to like Pakistan, it wouldn't be what they say it is, or if you went to India or you went to Israel, like they just took bits and pieces and combined it into one. Which looks like a different--
 Why did they do that? What would you think--
They didn't look into it, they didn't bother to do the research.
 Yeah, they probably didn't--
 Because their culture is so different than American culture, that they just thought that they could just skip over it. Like I thought it was gross that they didn't even bother to translate what they wanted to say on a manuscript. Like if it was in English, they would have had the actual letters on the piece of paper, but they just, you think that you can just go like this on the board, and that looks like Arabic writing? That's not--
Arabic writing is really complicated.
And the whole thing with all the accents, how all the bad guys had accents, and the good guys didn't. The bad guys had like--
Oh, the beards and noses?
Bigger beards, and then the good guys, they looked American.
 I think it made you assume the worst, like reading that just made me like, "Wow," like, "Oh my gosh," it's not really giving you the information--
 But yet, you didn't notice it when you watched it though, right?
 Yeah, I mean, you didn't at all.
 I did, though.
But then when we're older, we go back in history--
Maybe that's because I have that class and we realized that it's all war with religion, and like I know those times.
 Go ahead. Religion, what about it?
She noticed that--
I did notice those things, like you can kind of tell like different culturally-wise, like the different Indian elements in Israel, or the different like Pakistani influences, but, and they had like Hindu going on. It's just really, really weird. But I did notice that, but like, I don't know, maybe like Hannah said, she didn't notice that, but because she didn't grow up like learning to write Arabic,
 No.
And like reading about all that stuff. I guess it's also like, how you grew up.
Right.
Someone who showed America, like  without photos.
I have a question. When you think about it, when we talk about American culture, we view it as pretty homogeneous, of the American values. Okay, there are these values, and that's all there is. But we know that that's not true. Do you find that to be, with these movies, by blending all of those different spaces, and all those different cultures, do you find that to be the message is not carried out the right way to children, that the Middle East is highly diverse, okay? And not everybody looks the same, or writes the same, or behaves the same, but Disney has done something that the media does. What does the media assume? That everybody who watches a movie--
 Is going to react the same way.
 It's going to react the same way, right? So the media assumes that homogeneity attitude. Yes?
The problems in the past 20 years in the Middle East, like when little kids grow up, and it's like, if I look at a picture of Osama bin Laden, I think, "Jafar," because he has a beard and he looks like that. Like we're taught that that is evil.
 Do you really? I don't.
That the person with the turban and beard is evil, because the terrorists that are doing these awful things to people all over the world, just happen to be Muslim, totally extremist Muslims that most of the people that carry out their religion don't practice. Kind of like most Christians during the Middle Ages didn't go out and chop people's heads off in the name of Jesus. It's the same thing.
 Right.
You know? But we look at those pictures of those Middle Eastern men and we think bad because of it, which is like Jafar and Aladdin.
 That's when acceptance comes in, like--
 You have to accept what's true and what's not.
Exactly.
Talk about ignorance, I mean, why do we have to accept that?
 Because it's not true.
Because it's not true, there are thousand and thousands
You don't see me going like, "Oh, I'm making bombs."
I'm not like saying acceptance like it's not true, I'm not like saying acceptance like, Osama bin Laden, like accepting that's what he looks like to like Jafar. Like, that's who he was, so that's what he looks like. You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, but I don't see that. If I see, if I look at Osama bin Laden, I don't see Jafar.
No I don't either.
I don't identify it at all.
I don't either, but you know what I'm saying?
Yeah, like little kids like 10 years from now, if they watch Aladdin and they're going to grow up, and what's going to be in the news is September 11th and Osama bin Laden.
But what the point is is that evil people look like everybody else. Like, Ursula could have just been a really pretty mermaid, and still done all the horrible things that she did to Ariel.
 Right.
Like it doesn't matter what you look like, they create these evil images of people, like all old ladies are either really smart or they're evil. They either have wisdom or they're out to get you. There's no in-between.
 Or the zoo-keeper in , he had a German accent, he was evil, and that was during a war, the movie.
Or like the three crows, right? That were talking in like the very like, I don't know, African-American, inner-city slang, and they were, just all that stuff that was just really--
 It kinds of makes it, like just like the story was describing what a bad person must look like, we have that image like up here, like tell them it looks like this, so when we see them, we automatically assume like, "Oh man, it could be a terrorist," just like when we watch a movie, like, "Oh, that's the bad guy." So like it's the same as if they're doing a cartoon, and if we're in real life.
Right, so that leads to problems that we have with profiling, for example. Putting people on one side, or, yes?
 It doesn't really relate to the article, but I was watching a movie with my mom, and I don't know what it was called, but there's this like, I guess class project, or oral presentation that someone had to do, and this girl chose to write about her religion, which she was Muslim, and she wrote about like 9/11 and she was like, "Just because they did that "doesn't mean we're all evil." And like I don't know, she had all this stuff, and then the principal like told the FBI or something, and they came to her house and deported her family back to where she came from. Just because of that. That's it.
 That's when like a school needs to teach acceptance. That's not the end. Or like families and the school needs to teach acceptance. Everyone was calling her like a suicide bomber, and like, "Go kill yourself," or, "Are you gonna bomb all of us?"
 And we call ourselves a country of freedom of religion.
 I remember when I was in sixth grade, there was a girl, she was Muslim, and people used to throw markers at her and stuff, and call her a terrorist. It was around 9/11 and stuff like that, and it used to like upset me because I used to feel really bad. Because she like didn't do anything, she barely even knew how to talk. They'd like throw markers at her and stuff, just because she was Muslim.
Like, because like no one has acceptance, like no one learns that, it's just like people make inferences, like, "Oh, man, it's a bad person, "so let's stay away, let's shy away, "let's make fun of them," instead of like, when you're going down the street, and just like we were talking about earlier, how there's like, if you see a big black man, you're gonna put your phone away, you're going to take your phone out and try to call your mom, put her on speed dial. You don't have acceptance, either. Like you may say we should get it, but you don't have it. It's just the way we grow up.
 We don't suspend judgment.
 You don't suspend judgment. It's difficult to do so. There is this conflict between acceptance and our values. Because the values that we have, that think by this individualistic view of what it is, and in doing so, you divide people into groups, and construct images about those people, and it's as simple as reading a children's story, okay, or as watching or turning the TV on in the morning and just watching the Disney Channel, or Noggin, or Nick, Jr., or whatever. There's messages that we impart on our children, there's messages that we impart on ourselves. Or picking up the newspaper. I don't know if you guys have noticed in the newspaper, but there is a big, there's a dichotomy between how different areas are described. Immediate areas, our city compared to our surrounding areas.

Right, so media is biased. They're systemically biased, okay? There is no democracy, but here is the fundamental thing as an American, we pride ourselves in democracy, we pride ourselves in leadership, so what do you do? What path do you follow? How do you--
