 Well, you know what, especially after Mrs. Bennett taught you the three things she wanted you to do in reading by having you look around the room, and skip around the room, and flip on the carpet, we thought, "Oh boy, that Nathan really "needs to do something hands-on." And I know from you being in Reading Recovery that when you heard a book twice you practically knew it. I mean, you knew the story. You could go somewhere and tell it, right?
 Yep.
 When you read the book is it easy for you to retell it? What is it like to retell a story that you just read?
 Not so easy for me,  'cause I had to pick up a book, look at it for a minute and then I pop it and then I know it.
 Okay, if I read a  story to you would you be able to go tell it to someone else?
 Yes.
 Okay.
 But right next to me.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 All right, well these  are the things we're gonna practice. And because we don't want to leave out the visual style of learning because it's also an important way to get information, we're gonna focus on the auditory and the kinestetic, the hearing and the hands-on type learning, and we're also gonna include some visual so that it will strengthen that part for you. But we wanna make sure we're getting you where your strength is. Because you are fantastic at listening and doing hands-on activities. Oh, you have a plan in your mind about what kind of castle you're gonna build?
 It's not a castle. It's gonna be like when I see that in movies. Like a tower like where the Egypt, Egyptites.
 The Egyptians?
 Yeah.
 Like a pyramid?
 Yeah.
 Okay, cool. All right. Would you like some extra things, like maybe some games or some extra things you can do to help you remember in class?
 Yeah because my teacher she gives us free games, like learning games, in our math book. There's math games and you have to put your thing on it and you have to guess who much it is. And if you get it right you stay on there.
 Okay, cool. Well I want to add some games like that that you're gonna-- And we're gonna add some things that you can do to help you remember directions in class and remember what Miss Smithson has asked you to do. 'Cause one of the things that I've noticed is that when Miss Smithson gives you two or three directions, you'll start one and then you forget what the other ones are. And you're like, "Ugh, what do I do now?"
 Yeah because my  brain it has so much stuff and because if I get more it kind of breaks the other stuff.
 And you know, I wasn't gonna talk about this yet but by you saying that, your brain has so much stuff, I wanted to remind you about, do you know what good listening looks like?
 Uh, huh.
 What do good listeners look like?
 Their hands are crisscrossed with their hands in their lap and wherever the teacher goes they keep their eyes on 'em.
 Okay, and then if you have a comment, if I say, "Would anyone like to ask a question "or make a comment about what we're learning?" Let's say I just taught you about Clemson Football.
 Or I like hockey. That's my favorite.
 Okay, let's say we were learning about hockey. The equipment used in hockey, okay? So if I asked you to either ask me a question or make a comment about what we're learning, would you tell me the names of some of the hockey equipment that you know of? Or would you ask me a question about a piece of hockey equipment that you've seen but you don't know what it's called? Or would you tell me a story about how you really like hockey?
 Hmmm, how I really like hockey.
 I knew you'd say that! You always do that! You remember one of things that Miss McGinnis taught you in Reading Recovery? And one of the strengths, this is what I love about you, one of the things that a lot of people have trouble with when they're reading is that they can't relate what they're reading to themselves or to their lives. You are absolutely fantastic with that. Fantastic.
 If there's a story of a dog and I have a dog and my dog did the same thing.
 Right. So since you're so good at that, though, sometimes I think that that is one of the things that gets your mind off on... on... "Hey my dog did that." Instead of on exactly what your teacher's wanting you to do. So one of the things about being a really good listener is to remember what comments, and what statements and what questions are necessary for what you're learning. And which comments and questions should wait for later, even though they're zinging around in your head, okay? So if I'm doing a whole class lesson about different colored fur on dogs and I say, "Can anyone think of a color "that a dog's fur might be?" What would be a comment you could make?
 Black and brown 'cause that's what my dog is made out of.
 Okay, black and brown. All right, let's say somebody says blonde, somebody else says white and then somebody raises their hand and they say, "Well, I don't know what all colors dogs can be "but my dog Sandy is really pretty." Is that a comment that is necessary for what we're talking about?
 No.
 Okay, so that's one of the things that you can practice. And I love your stories and I know Miss Smithson does, too. And you have a lot of kids and grownups in this school that feel really close to you and we feel like we have a good relationship with you because you do share things about yourself.
 Yeah, but I only do that at the beginning of the day, the end of the day and at writing. 'Cause I write down the things in writing.
 Good, well then I'm glad Miss Smithson is also working on this with you because as much as I want to know about you I don't want it to distract you from what it is you're supposed to be thinking about. Okay?
 Okay.
 Three more blocks. Okay, let's talk about some of the things that we're gonna put in place for you, okay? A couple of 'em I'm pretty excited about, okay? We're gonna work on your memory with reading and in general with classwork so that when someone tells Nathan what to do, Nathan's gonna be able to remember it. Instead of getting distracted and thinking, "Huh. "I have no idea what I'm supposed to do next."
 Yeah because in my class there's some kids, Zachary and Brody and the two new kids, they're talking in the back.
 And that's can be very distracting, can't it? Okay, do you know how to focus? Do you know how to tune people out? What do you do when you're distracted in the classroom?
 I just turn around and go like this.
 Okay, do you think you know how to tune people out without having to tell them to stop? What if you knew they were gonna talk no matter what but you still needed to listen? Could you?
 I could do this to block their sound.
 Okay, you could. That kinda reminds me of the bat we were talking about for some reason. It's kinda like you're directing your hearing at one place.
 And sometimes I push it to what I'm hearing at. So then when I do that in my mouth I can hear it more good without noises from the construction site that's near our house. I can focus on it.
 Okay, I think that's fantastic what you've just said. You make a conscious effort to focus on what you're trying to hear. That what I want you to do when you notice that other people are talking behind you. Instead of worrying about what they're doing, I want you to focus on what you need to be hearing. I want you to stop and think, "I'm not gonna listen to them, "I'm gonna listen to Miss Smithson." Okay? And see if that helps. Just like you strain to hear the construction noises, okay? All right, we're gonna do some fun things with you that I think you're gonna like. First of all, I know you love video games. So one of the things that we've tried before that doesn't seem to be working very well is Odyssey. And I know that when you get on Odyssey you like to choose the math games over the reading games. Probably just--Why do you choose math over reading?
 'Cause I wanna get  more math so then I can just focus on reading 'cause if I'm really smart at math I can just drop it so I know everything.
 I know sweetheart. It's a lot more fun to do something that you're really good at. So we're gonna change up your computer program. Instead of having you work on Odyssey during the day, instead of Odyssey you're gonna work on a new program called Earobics. And it's supposed to be super helpful with your reading skills. And Mrs. Price, the speech teacher whose office is across the hall, she said it is really fun and that she knew kids at Griggs Road that did it and they loved it, okay? So we're gonna try Earobics. So we're gonna keep a computer game for you but we're gonna try one that hopefully is gonna work better to help your reading skills come up instead of Odyssey. Okay? All right. The next thing we're gonna do is we're gonna give you a little tape recorder. Have you ever had a tape recorder?
 No and I haven't even seen one.
 I know, a lot of people don't use tape recorders anymore. Most people can record things on their phone and all kinds of gadgets.
 Well I had when I  was little I had this little thing and it had a recorder. When I would sing a song into the microphone I could record it and then play it to my friends.
 Okay, well we're gonna do something like that. We're gonna have you, if Mrs. Smithson is giving directions and then you guys are getting ready to do an assignment or group work or whatever it is she wants you to do, she's gonna come over and she's gonna give the directions to you. You get to press record on your tape recorder and say the directions yourself into the tape recorder. Then you get to stop it and play it back and hear yourself saying the directions. Okay? Unless you need them, we're gonna have you put the little tape recorder away so that it doesn't bother you. Like maybe in a pocket behind your seat or something. And then only if you get stuck and you think, "Hmm, what did Miss Smithson want me to do?" can you get out that recorder and listen.
 Yeah or I can have it recording beside me so I could record everything and if I still remember it, like it's so easy I can remember it, I can just erase it.
 Okay. But I think the actual act of hearing it whole group with the rest of the kids in your room, hearing it with just Miss Smithson telling it you, saying it again yourself and then hearing what you said, that may be all you need. You may not have to listen to it again. I think just making sure you're really concentrating on what the directions are is gonna be a really good thing for ya. Okay, also, oop. I gotta get something from over here. Okay. One of the other things we might do is maybe Miss Smithson might tell you something, like give you a direction, and she's gonna whisper it in your ear and then you have to whisper it to the person beside you. And they're gonna whisper it to the person beside them and it's gonna go around the table until it gets back to you. How many of you all sit at one group?
 Five or six. I think it's gonna be five 'cause we got two more kids.
 Okay, so sometimes Miss Smithson might say, "Get out your pencil, get out your math book "and turn to page 50." Okay? So then you have to whisper that into the ear of the person beside you. What would you say?
 "Get out your pencil and get out your math book "and turn to page 50."
Okay and then that person would have to whisper it to them. Then it's gonna come all the way around and then the last person's gonna say, "Get out your pencil, get out your math book "and turn to page 60." Is that right?
 I'll just turn back to 'em and say, "It's 50."
 It's 50. Okay, okay. That's another way we might make sure that we understand the directions before we get started.
 Sometimes my teacher she just writes it on--
