 Today is Wednesday.
Yes, I would clone myself.
Good, why? Why would you clone yourself?
Because everybody deserves a second me. 
So you would just...
And I would clone a woolly mammoth for my clone to ride on.  Honestly...
What would some of the negatives to cloning something like that?
 Well, it's another me . But it's still good, because, you know, I'm me, and I'm good and bad.
Do you know your clone is not going to be, like, set, right? You're gonna have to wait for it to grow up.
So, I have to raise a little baby clone of me? 
Yes.
And it'll look just like me when I was a baby?
Pretty much.
Oh, that's wrong!  Oh, my God. There are so many possibilities.
Alright. So, let's start off with...
I'll get it a baby .
Raise your hand if you can remind us, like, what is cloning? There's only one of you?
Like taking the DNA, or, like, I don't know, like, whatever, out of one person, like, trying to, like duplicate it into another one?
Okay,great. We're all... well, was there only, like, one type of cloning? What were some of the different types?
Well, one type of cloning is only tissues and organs only, and another one is, let's see, animal and livestock cloning.
Anything else you want to add to that? Gady? So, what's one way they do the cloning? So, they take the DNA from one animal, what do they do?
 
Do you remember what parts they used? Like what kind of cell they used?
 Nucleus?
They did take the nucleus. And they used?
 
The eggs of the other animal. Okay, it's kind of interesting. You can take the egg from one animal and completely change its DNA. So, now when that turns into a new organism, it's an identical copy of the animal that it came from.
And if you take... you can bring back endangered species, too. Because remember that  or whatever, then they put in the cow?
Yeah.
But they were, like, related in some kind of way, so it wasn't, like, weird.
That's true. It was probably a decendent. Do you guys remember that from the video? They had tried to take an animal that was almost extinct, in fact, they couldn't actually do the tests on the animal. Remember, they were saying that there were so few of them that they couldn't even do the tests on them? Right? How long did  last? Does anyone remember?
 Three days.
Yeah, it was about three days, right. But it was the first time.
So, when they couldn't open up that cow, the cow died, right?
I don't know that for sure, but I'm guessing that they were not that interested in the cow medically. They were...
Oh, no, I was just wondering because there's a cow sitting there with a giant gaping hole in its womb.
That's true. That does happen.
I mean, I don't care if the cow died, honestly. That's another hamburger for me. But that Goward? That Goward? That's swole. You can't get any other animal like that.
Anybody else in here agree that it's okay to do that testing to save endangered species?
Well yeah, because if there's like a hundred million cows and one... whatever that thing was called... 
So, we should probably try and get more of them?
Yeah, why not?
Okay.
We should clone pandas.
Let's hear somebody else, though. Is there anybody else that has....

I said,  alligator.  try and bring it back.
That's true. What happens when there's so many? I mean, how many of you have ever watched the movie Jurassic Park?
Oh, my God, I've seen all of them at least twice.
So, that's a good question. So, if we can bring back something that looks like a cow, fabulous. What happens when you want to bring something that looks just as cool, but has bigger teeth?
Well, you see, it breaks out of the cage, like in Jurassic Park the Lost World, and it starts attacking all the...
Great.
Well, yeah, it kind of started eating people.
That was wrong.
Fabulous, but what could be some of the downfalls on that? Like, any negatives to cloning animals that are endangered or almost extinct?
Well, hardly any of the 
You need to...
The DNA might get messed up 
Yeah, but remember that when we're messing around with the DNA, yeah, maybe there could be a mistake. What happens then?

It could die.
It could die, yes.
I would say. One good thing about bringing dinosaurs back is that you finally get to study them the way we want to.
That's probably what scientists are thinking. "Wouldn't that be great if I could study something and actually be able to touch it and see what it does?" Because a lot of things they tell you about, you know, dinosaurs, is what they think they do. "Well, we think they eat this," and, "We think this is how they lived." Wouldn't it be great if we could actually study those?
What if dinosaurs were never real?
Well, they found skeleton remains, so they're pretty much sure they were around.
They also found .  Because you can't just stick an animal in an environment and maybe it will survive, because it will mess up the chain of life.
Anthony has a really good point, because what's going to happen if we have dinosaurs? We can't just stick them somewhere for them to roam around. Because they don't have anything they can naturally eat anymore. And they don't have any natural predators anymore.
That's why you just bring back T-rexes and velociraptors. And what not. Then, you just feed them cows. 
You don't know if they necessarily eat cows, though. You don't know that.
Well, it's meat.
It is meat, but that's also your food source.
Well, that's not going to be . Maybe eight or nine. Maybe 25 for a T-Rex. 
You're underestimating the size of some of these animals. But the same thing applies to actual animals, instead of just dinosaurs. What happens if we have animals that are going extinct because we are building new houses, and we're expanding our cities? So, we're moving into some areas where there are some animals, and they start to die off because we are taking over their land? So yeah, we could make a hundred copies of these animals, or whether it's plants, or birds, or certain insects. But that is a good question - where are they going to live if we just bring them back?
Wildlife park.
So, that is a good thing. And again, remember that you all add  because if you put them somewhere that  a park, they won't necessarily survive. So, you might need to think about all the other stuff that goes with that. So, yeah, the food chain. Interesting, how everything's connected. Raise your hand if you'd like to share one of your questions from yesterday. We'll start with Anthony.
Okay, so like say me and this lady get married. We both can't have kids, so they take my DNA and they make a clone of me. I'm married to this person. Would that be only my child, or would that be our child?

And if, why?

Maybe, yeah.
But what if you're married?

Well, does it require two people that has your DNA? I'm sorry I didn't hear you.

Maybe, it is. Maybe it's totally the environment. Who's to say? Maybe if you raise it, and you're like, "This is our kid..."
Well, because of that case, then, there can't be any more like if we depended on cloning, there woudn't be any...  well, there'd be less drama in the world, because we wouldn't be... doing stuff the natural way. And, like, people being knocked up in bars and stuff,  and random places, and stuff, and, like, not knowing their father in life, you know. But you know what I'm saying, right?
Do you think it would be hard?
Like, what if people were 100% dependent on this? There would be a lot less problems.
Eventually, if you keep cloning yourself, and then your clone cloned itself, and your clone clones itself...
You'd have the same group of people.
You'd have the best group ever.
Yeah, but how would you know because you wouldn't be here.
That's dumb, that's what that is.
That's interesting.
We can't have just a bunch of the same people. That'd be one stupid... That'd be dumb, man. 
I don't know. Walking around seeing all the same people?
That's stupid! You're not going be like 
Like the Matrix, everything repeating?
Other questions. Let's get one from a female this time. We got the guys' questions. Let's get a girl. Don't all shout out all at once. Mayra, what's one of your questions?
I said, like, if they clone a sheep, and it's like, sick, wouldn't it... or let's say there's  a regular sheep, and they clone that, wouldn't the clone be sick, too?
What did she say?
Not necessarily.
No, because it's like you said, it's two entire different bodies of life. A lot of things can go wrong in one person. So, how could it just be the same thing, two different ? Unless it's like a problem with an organ that the one had, and then .
Well, I want to say that, like, a disesased kid 
Maybe. What about, remember, you just did genetics, right? If it's in your DNA, what would happen?
If it was in your DNA...

It probably would get it. If it was something that it caught, it probably wouldn't get it.
That's true. So it depends, I guess, maybe what it is. Right? So you have this sheep, just cloned it, and because it has something very serious with it, and if it's genetic, then yeah, there's probably a chance that that clone would probably have the exact same disorder later on. I think they were showing... Remember when they were doing Dolly and they showed some of the animals they had cloned? I think they were talking about the sheep, Dolly, and then they had some mice that they had cloned. They had said that the animals  they had cloned... does anyone remember what any of the side effects... what they've noticed?
 
Sometimes they can't breathe right. What else?
 
Sometimes they died really young. So, just because it's a clone... maybe we haven't quite figured it out yet. Because it seems like maybe there are some issues with the animals actually coming out healthy or normal, if they're dying younger or having problems growing. Other questions? Hector, what is one of your questions? Or, if you don't have your questions ready, or you feel like  your questions were answered, maybe you just have a comment. 
You have none? What do you think about cloning?  Do you agree with it? Or are there are certain places or times you would agree with it?
Um, I agree with it. Like, the pros I would agree with it,  like, for food?
For what?
Like cloning for more food?
Oh, like the chickens? Right? Cloning to make more chickens. Wouldn't it be great if I have a perfect chicken, and I could make a hundred copies of the same perfect chicken? 
I've had all types of chickens. They all taste the same. 
That's true.
Everything tastes like chicken.
But have you ever gotten like a really tiny drumstick, and then you got like the nice meaty drumstick?
Well, like a tiny little drumstick. They still taste good. 
True, but what one gives you more food?
You got a point there.
Okay, so maybe, right...
But still, you could put them together...
In the case of KFC, the reason why their chicken's so big is because they put hormones in them to make them big.
Yes. That's the way they approach that.
That's the best way to do that right there.
Not really. People get cancer from that.
So, would this be a good solution? So instead of making... eating... our cows and feeding pigs, and feeding chickens these extra vitamins and extra hormones, to make them larger and grow faster, would it better to just take the large, big cows and just clone them? Or make chicken and make copies of it? Yes? No?
Does anyone see any... maybe. This sounds really great, like we're going to make these big meaty chickens so that everybody has a lot of chicken that they can eat, but is there any downside to that?
No. Honestly, no, I don't think so.
Not for you. Great. Is there anybody else?
Money.
Money how?
They could cost more to , but they could cost less and be more affordable, which is what we want.
Good. Money is a good issue, right? People won't have to think about money issues?
I don't think there'd be a money issue if you were cloning chickens, because you can always just get, you know, take a syringe and, like...
But that's what he was saying, that maybe it'd be cheaper if they could make it without using as much stuff.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
It would take longer.
What do you guys think about the cloning for body parts?
Can I go back to the chickens for a second?
Sure, go for it.
Wouldn't there be a lot less farmers, so then there'd be a lot less jobs because, you know, like the whole...
That is true.
Like a lot of companies will go out of business because, I don't know, I feel like there's like a monopoly on it,
More private industries are going to go out of business, and that's going to destroy livelihoods. Because all the big livestock companies like KFC and McDonald's... well, they're not a livestock company, they're fast food.
But they're going to be selling it to those , right? They're going to let it go off of...
Just by show of hands, who in here might have a problem eating food if they knew that it had been genetically messed around with?
That's just because you guys are okay with dying. 
Chris, not sure, or does it just kind of...
I don't care, really. 
What was the question?
Oh, I said would you be bothered if you ate genetically modified food?
No, before that. The one before Anthony started talking.
We were trying to see if there was any downside of cloning chickens.
We'll get there. I know the question. We'll get there.
I want to say something.
We'll get there. Alright. Erica. Medical, the cloning the body parts, like if people are sick and they need a new heart, or new lungs, or a new kidney.
Ms. Scott, I wrote the name of it. It's called Therapeutic Cloning. They refer to it that way. So, that's what it's called when you do that.
So when we're using it, for cloning for the organs for individuals who have issues, whether it's, like just a few cells, or like nervous cells for people who had spinal cord injuries... what do you think about that?
I think it's a good idea.
It's a good idea? Do you have any reasons to be worried about that?

It would be better than nothing? Any concerns. Anybody else?
Have you heard of of a book called ? What was it called?

I don't think I have. What's it about?

That's okay.  Levon is going to have to read it now, because he'll be like, "What?"
It's about, like, in the future, will people, if parents don't want their kids any more, they can, like, they can give them a , like they can take their other body parts off and... they can take their other body parts off of them and stuff, so they  like your body parts are still alive,  so one arm could be like your real arm, and your other arm could be like .
Interesting. I'll have to read that book sometime. Now, when they're doing the therapeutic cloning, they're not actually creating, like, a whole new human, and then  the body parts up. There's a couple of different ways they were doing it.

Do you remember what they were using to... how they were growing the organs?

That is true. But what were they trying to do with the cloning? How are they trying to avoid that? Do you remember? Does anybody remember? How is cloning supposed to help your body to keep from rejecting? Because...
Do you guys remember what happened to the woman...
Close. Very close to that.  So, remember when you get a body organ, like the lady with the kidney, right? Who'd she get the kidney from?
 Her aunt.
Yeah, so she got it from her aunt. Somebody she was not even related to that just happens to be part of the family. Like, they were a match. She had to take... remember all of those pills she had to take? To make sure her body doesn't, like, get rid of the kidney. And then, unfortunately, it still did? So, they're looking at getting, making kidneys, and I think that they were growing them inside of a cow. I think it was a cow. Might have been a pig. It was a big animal.
So, you're going to grow human kidneys that are functional?
Mm hmm.
On a cow? They were using another animal, and they were actually growing it, like, not in the animal. It wasn't part of the animal. They were using the animal as a place to keep it growing and functioning.
So on the outside of a cow, there'd be kidneys.
Underneath the skin. Yep. And then they would take take them out, and transplant them into humans.
This is like that episode of South Park where... it's a little bit inappropriate, but not too much.
Then let's not go there. It's a little too inappropriate, then let's not.
Nevermind. Nevermind. You're going to watch it for yourself.
Fabulous. But they are also trying, by cloning, because remember a lot of times they're trying to find animal parts that might match. Like for example, did you know a pig heart is about the same size as a human heart?
So, you could have a pig heart?
They were thinking about taking pig hearts and transplanting them into people that needed new hearts. The problem is, of course, is it's a pig's heart, which means the outside of the heart looks like, pig cells. So, your body would know that it's not a human heart. It would know that it's a pig heart. And your body probably won't want that in its body. So, they were trying, remember they had, trying to grow new pigs? I think they had little piglets running around? The pigs had human DNA in there to make the outside of their hearts and the outside of their lungs, and kidneys all kind of copy what a human cell would look like on the outside? So, that when they keep those body parts, if they put them in a human, your body wouldn't recognize it as being something different.

Did you know they've actually done that?
My dad's friend's daughter has pig intestines.
