 So what about this part? Is this any different, or is this part the same as last time?
 It's different because--
 Well--
 Let's let Rileen talk, Chris.
 It's different because it's wider, and it got right to here and the other one came up to there.
 It's like six more, it's like ten more centimeters than last time.
 Okay. So once you guys finish with your observations, you guys can start working on collecting your data for the canyon and for the delta. 
 See, this part is completely dry.
 It's pretty much almost half.
 Water's above the side.
 Watch that,  watch that, it's gonna fall.
 Look at that.
 It's like a boat  going down a waterfall.
 That was sand.
 I know. 
 The water has stopped going.
 One minute's passed.
 Thirty?
Cameron] Oh.
 
 There's a--start to get ready. It's not done playing.
 It's still not done .
 Well, the water--
 Look at this, look at this.
 I know, we're still dry.
 There's a pool of water at the end.
 There's a pool of water at the end.
 Look at this, there's a dent, there's a dent.
 Oh, wow.
 Right here's dry.
 Okay, why do you guys think this part didn't get any water?
 Because it probably went under?
 So Cameron says it went under, Xander, what were you saying?
 It was going too fast and it didn't--it was probably right here, so it didn't decide to go all the way over here, and it went right here.
 It formed a lake right here.
 It went the easiest route. So it's got eight or nine minutes.
 So, now ten, nine minutes.
 Is water still draining?
 Yeah, the water's still there.
 When are you guys gonna decide when the end time is?
 When this goes.
 There's been nine minutes, right? And the water is dripping.
 Last time we got 15 minutes.
 The water's dripping into basin.
 Last time we got 15 minutes.
 So how does it all compare?
 Because, um, it compares because it's almost the same, and look at, it like poured a pool or something.
 Cameron, you were saying this one is almost the same? Like it took the same amount of time?
 No.
 No.
 No, I'm saying it's getting there.
 No, the other one's longer because it drained a bigger whole.
 Yeah.
 So Elondra, how was the time different for this one?
 How it was like similar?
 Let's hear what Elondra says.
 This one went faster.
This one went faster?
Yeah, way faster.
So you're saying it's similar, not too different? But Elondra's saying it went faster. Do you agree with her?
 Yeah, and the deposition it's like way over here. Way across there. 
 You guys are, I think, pretty much done with your water draining now.
 Okay, so--
 Nine or ten minutes and it's done.
 So you guys want to record your end time?
 No, no, it's still going.
 It's okay if there's still a little bit of water left in. Once it stops draining, you guys can put the tape over here and you guys can start taking your measurements.
 Where do we get the toothpicks?
 Don't we have to know what time it is?
 10:30, right?
 Was this when the chocolate melts?
 When's the chocolate melt? Elondra.
 What?
 It looks like chocolate--
 So are you guys ready to start taking your measurements?
 Yeah.
 Why don't you guys open up your science notebooks so you have the table in front of you, and I'll bring by a toothpick so you can get started on the writing.
 Yeah.
 I think the widest part is right here.
 Can I do the poking?
 Huh?
 Can I do the poking?
 You guys have your measuring tape out?
 We have to go get the measuring tape.
 Tape that back up.
 Here, our widest part is right here.
 Widest part is that.
 No, no, no, you're not supposed to poke it.
 How long is that?
 It's about to here.
 Okay, we got what we need.
 Go from centimeters.
 Centimeters.
 Aw, Cameron. Cameron, you messed it up.
 That's not our longest part. Our longest part is this.
 Okay, we have to redo it. Wait, where does we start?
 Right here.
 Here, you do the poking. Don't poke it into the thing, but how deep is it? Here, grab it.
 
 No, you're not supposed to do that. Remember what she did?
 Okay, this right here.
 It's about three centimeters.
 Three centimeters.
 So, depth of straight channel is three centimeters.
 Okay, what do we measure next?
 Okay, time to do the width.
 How much was it?
 Three centimeters.
 Three? Okay. What's the widest?
 Where's the measuring tape? Around six centimeters.  - How much?  - Six.
 Six centimeters.
 Six. Okay, now we need to do width of soil drop to end of stream channel. It's all this, it's all from right here.
 It's from here to here. You guys, we need the tape measure.
 Yeah, width, from here to here. No, it's this long. I've got it with my fingers. This long.
 It's about 15.
 No, it's 14 and a half.
 No that's 15.
 Yeah, 15.
 Oh yeah, 15.
 Same with the other one.
 15.
 It goes all the way to the end.
 Yeah, length.
 Okay, 29.
 How many?
 29.
 Yeah, and depth of soil dripped at the end of end of the stream channel. Where's the toothpick?
 So right here...
 Right there, yeah.
 Okay, where's the time?

 
 
 Okay, so, can you hold that there? 
 How much is it?
 Five centimeters.
 How many?
 Five.
 Five c-m.
 Okay, width of the soil dropped at the end of the stream channel. So right here.
 We're gonna actually move to here.
 No no, width.
 Oh, width?
 Looks about...
 11 centimeters, maybe?
 11 centimeters. Alright, length of the soil dropped at the end of the stream channel. So now we're measuring that.
 Here, you can do it.
 So what're you guys working on measuring now?
 Length.
 We've got a long length.
 27.
 28.
 28, yeah.
 28 centimeters.
 Jorge, you can measure--
 Now what do we measure? Depth of soil dropped at end of the--
 Wait, what was it?
 28.
 Depth of soil dropped at the end of the stream channel.
 Where's the toothpick?
 I'm letting Jorge do it.
 Okay.
 Jorge, you can do this one.
 So, maybe poke it here.
 Poke it in there.
 Now put your finger down. Put your finger down where it is.
 Slide it down until you feel the dirt.
 Good.
 Bring it over to Kendra.
 So you can kinda see the dirt right there. That's not even a centimeter.
 You start here.
 Okay. That's not even a centimeter.
 That's three millimeters.
 So we round it down to zero centimeters.
 Okay.
 Zero. Okay, we're all done.
 No, we still have to--
 "Work on your bird's-eye view picture in your notebook." 
 Up in the big can.
 Oh no, they're over there.
 Okay. The same bird's-eye view or a different view?
 That's what I was going to-- 
 I'm especially gonna draw in here, because that's really interesting.
 Really interesting.
 
 Did Cody just go get something?
 Yes, he did.
 Oh my gosh, he's so nice.
 So did you guys finish taking your data?
 Yeah, we're gonna do our bird's-eye view.
 Before you guys look at your bird's-eye view, I want you to share. What'd you guys find from your data? So let's look at your data tables for a minute.
 Okay.
 It kind of made like a cave.
 No, right here.
 Yeah.
 So I see the  difference right here. In the depth of the stream channel, the basic stream was actually more than the rushing river.
 What was more?
 Like, in centimeters, so one centimeter off.
 So, Alejandro's looking at the depth of the stream channel, and the last time it was three centimeters deep and this time it was only two centimeters deep? So last time it was actually deeper. How about which one was wider?
 The rushing river.
 So the rushing river made a wider stream channel?
 Yeah.
 I think the reason why it was wider is because more water came in.
 It basically didn't spend enough time going in, it basically just went--
 Yeah, and it made it more curved-inish and stuff.
 Okay. Jorge, what'd you notice?
 I noticed that, right here, it made a little cave, and I think something like water, I think there was a little whirlpool there.
 Yeah, there was.
 There were a bunch of whirlpools.
 Yeah, there were doubles.
 There's one right here and here.
 So I think it broke the water  .
 I saw one little whirlpool right there, and another one over here.
 I saw one here.
 So the water was kinda doing some different things in some of these places?
 Yeah, I think it's 'cause it curves like that, so the bubbles keep on spinning if the water's coming through.
 Yeah, so the water's-- 
 So what about the delta? The deposition? How is this different than your first experiment?
 Oh my gosh, it was five centimeters bigger.
 Five centimeters bigger? What'd you notice, Jorge?
 The biggest part was that it was only this part right here.
 Okay.
 Yeah, that was the longest part that was part of it all.
 So Cody, I noticed that, this time, how deep was your delta?
 Our delta, which would be to get that soil?
 Yeah.
 Zero centimeters.
 So does that mean there's no delta? So how did you guys come up with zero?
 'Cause it was three millimeters, so we had to round down.
 Okay, so you guys have your data.
 And the length of the soil--
 It was a lot wider, wasn't it?
 Yeah, the length of the soil was like four centimeters bigger. It was from the end right here and it continued down.
 So you guys, remember, we're gonna take this data--
 Someday are we gonna put more of that stuff in here?
 Oh, put more of the earth material in?
 Yeah.
 And see what it would be like if you added more material?
 
 Okay, maybe that would be a question we could investigate.
 Maybe the delta would be thicker because there's not enough room for all of it.
 You know why I'm asking you that? Because I think it would be deeper, because right here it only makes little ones here, but the other one would probably make it bigger because it has more space.
 Okay. So you think these channels might be bigger?
 Yeah.
 If there was more earth material?
 What if we made an even bigger hole?
 Oh, so you're wondering if it was an even bigger flood, what might happen?
 Maybe that would be a hole like this big.
 Yeah, you guys are doing that thing that scientists do after they do an investigation, they start asking more questions, "I wonder, what if we tried this." So you guys have got your data, so we'll be ready to put this in the class data table, right? Find our averages probably on Thursday? Right now, you guys are going to be working on-- you want to make sure you get the runoff sample, draw what that looks like today, we'll see what it looks like when it settles out later, and then you guys are going to work on your bird's eye view, and think about where's the humus, where's the gravel, where's the clay, so you can add that into the picture.
 Hey guys, I'm gonna like--
 Yeah, I was thinking the same thing, like rip this up.
 Whoa, there's the biggest--
 Oh, that's cool!
 Ms. Maher, it made a big dip.
 I'm guessing that some water's still down there.
