 Look, I can be a serk . ♫ Now, my whole house, is great ♫ I can do anything good ♫ I like my school, I like anything ♫ I like my dad, I like my cousins ♫ I like my aunts, I like my Allisons ♫ I like my mom, I like my sister ♫ I like my dad ♫ I like my hair, I like my hair cuts ♫ I like my pajamas, I like my stuff ♫ I like my room ♫ I like my whole house! ♫ My whole house is great ♫ I can do anything good ♫ Yeah, yeah, yeah ♫ I can do anything good ♫ Better then anyone ♫ 
 Okay. Ok, what'cha learn from the video?
 She can do anything.
 Ok, what else?
 She likes to sing.
 Be positive.
 She likes to sing, be positive. What else? What else did you learn about the video?
 Believe in yourself.
 Believe in yourself. Okay now how is this going to be related to our yearbook class?
 Stay positive about it. People get a... what's gonna-- what the outcome's gonna be.
 Okay, and the outcome is something that we wanna be able to serve the entire school. Okay, what else? How is this also related to yearbook and what we're trying to accomplish?
 We shouldn't blame ourselves?
 I'm sorry?
 We shouldn't blame ourselves?
 Okay, good, good. Okay, so what we're going to do after this this is a good start, I think, for the work that we're gonna be having to do this afternoon. We're gonna have to work on our ladder. And I know that we've spent some time on it, we've had to make some considerable changes. But I think that the compromise.. the agreement that we all talked about yesterday, I think it can be implemented today. So what we're gonna try to do, is based on... These are the signatures, that we have allocated. One signature for elementary school. One signature for middle school. And five signatures for the high school. I think let's try to fit it in. Let's try to stay within the seven signatures. Don't forget, we have ads also. Okay, so I think Tanisha, and... Dustin, and... Jazz, will be on team one. And Sammy, Emily, and Colleen, will be on team two. Let's work together. What are the rules of getting the teamwork going? When we're trying to discuss, What are the things that I want you to think about?
 Everyone has a voice.
 Okay, everyone has a voice. What else?
 We all have to agree to a middle ground.
 Okay.
 And it's not just for the high school seniors.
 Okay, so it's for the entire school. The elementary school, middle school and high school. So let's be fair, and try to get everybody involved. What else? Discussion-wise, among yourselves. What would I like you to be working on? Collaborative work? Compromise? 
 Okay, let's go ahead and start. You have the books there, you have copies of the previous ladder. Let's get it good. 
Teacher] Yeah?
 I understand, elementary school, middle school, high school. In what order--
 It's up to you honey. If you want to start with the middle school, elementary school, high school.
 I don't know, maybe just 'cause I'm a senior, I kinda like that plan.
 It just seems weird  starting at the elementary school. I think it's just that, they're not as important, just that--
 'Cause it's always started at high school. It starts with the seniors and it's like this is what, for--
 Okay now, remember, just because it's always done before--
 I know but--
 If we started with the elementary school, We'd be starting with the fourth grade. And that's really our--
 Kind of an  awkward place to start.
 Okay, now remember with your signature, you were gonna start with Student Life, correct? With the High School? So you could start with that. I mean look at it and you can see. 
 And then we're  gonna start it with, like the introduction... Um, like, um...
 Pictures.
 Student life, candid shots.
 Right.
 And then we're going to the seniors and all the senior stuff, and our classes. And then the sports and night clubs?
 Yes.
 We're not gonna have a class... class division page, anymore. 'Cause all of the classes are scrambled. Are we still thinking, like, doing division pages? Like how it was worded originally? Except, not for the classes. Because all the classes were split up.
 Yeah, now it makes it easier to do your "me", right? Don't forget, what's our theme?
 "Me".
 Okay, so keep that it mind when you're creating your signatures. And I think, now that solicited more... allocated, the sections are allocated. Your division pages-- maybe more adaptable.
 They'll fit in there more.
 Yeah. They'll fit in there more. Don't ya think?
 I guess. 
 So should we  just do one, like just high school division page, then middle school--
 Yes, try it and see. See. Now you might still need a division page for sports, you might still need a division page. But you don't need as many. I think--
 We definitely won't have one for the classes. 'Cause they're all split up.
 They're already split up. And I think this is what helped save us pages. Remember, you're getting eight signatures.
 Um, Question.
 Yeah.
 The yearbook,  two pages and ads is under the high school?
 Only because, I just put that as just to remind you that we need to have ads at the very end.
 Okay.
 So whatever, is your last section, you have to have ads. We have to start selling ads. And again, if you have any questions on the photographs, Sammy is here she can help you with what ever photograph you want. 
 
 Show the blood drive scales. And then... 
 But their only  sport is the seventh grade basketball. Everything else is going into high school.
 Does it make sense?
 Yeah, yeah.
 They all happened right there, together.
 Are we still gonna do straight lines, and single lines like they did?
 I think we might just do a big column.
 Yeah.
 We can still do that, and then after our seniors, we can explore all the classes in line.
 And it makes sense? If you have that quote.
 Yeah.
 We are gonna do... "Student Life", seniors, all the senior stuff, And then classes?
 Make sure that you have your page counts.
 Are doing school division pages or are we doing section division pages?
 I guess we could  do school, and then-- We would have to have the division pages that we thought of-- the spread division page with all the things. It could just be different little division pages.
 Yeah, okay, so...
 Or like, have  the title at the top of the page. 
 Don't forget, she has control of the photographs. So you need to consult with her, okay? You can ask her.
 Okay, um.

 So are we going  to do a senior opening page?
 I think we could just  have... an opening page, on the division page.
 I thought we were going  to do the top. 
 Instead of doing a collage, how they put in their, like, the song and all that on the second page. Around all the photos, we should put-- 'Cause, in our theme or whatever, it's just a strip. Of pictures. Blended in the big picture. So we're have written around it, to add in these. So I think that we should put these, on the first, opening page.
 Now remember, we did this only because... we had no choice.
 I like, well I like,  the happenings that we decided not to do, for the opening page for the seniors. Because, it's new life. Since our theme, it's just one strip. We could arrange it like this. I think that we should put, on that page, we should put these.
 Oh, definitely. Yeah, good idea. Well, what happened, is the reason why I placed it and you placed it here because when you sort it all originally, it was so empty, and it didn't mean anything, so, we went ahead and did that.
 I think it would have been better to do that from the beginning.
 And then we can have  Alex start doing the onward for two others.
 Do we... want to put favorites before the formal?
 I think we should put favorites.
 So, we're talking this one, right? These are the formals you want before the favorites.
 No, we want our  favorites before our formals.
 Oh, Okay.
 And then we're combining formal and baby pictures in quotes right?
 Yeah. Well, you know, what do you think?
 Well I like, combining it.
 Can you pull up the other ladder? Do you still have that one?  If we have that picture, and then another picture, and then another--
 This one? Is this the ladder you want to see? Which section do you want to pull?
 "Student life".  I think it's on that.
 Right here?
 Yeah.
 Let me know. Because then I can go back and let her know.
 So, you want to start off with that?
 So it'll be like... The formal, then the baby, and then the quote.
 Can you tell Emily what she missed yesterday? About the quotes. No, were you present? When you said that a lot of seniors who didn't have quotes last year.
 They would rather have a big list of them and just have them pick and cross it off. If they can come up with their own.
 And I have a quote book. Somewhere, and we can start deciding. We can go from very funny, to very serious. So the kids can have a good choice. 
 Did you want me to go back to the other one? 
 How are you deciding the order? Is it, just from serious to funny or...
 Well it's more, funner stuff, the memories into the more serious stuff.
 And you're ending it with the grauduation?
 Yeah.
 You rather repeat our homecoming?
 But that's spirit week.
 There's another one--
 That's what  homecoming fills. This is the problem. On the other ladder that we had, the only high school "Student Life" we had was "Holten Hemming" and "Spirit Week".
 That's the same thing.
 Yeah, Hemming  and Spirit Week. Like, one spread and then the awards honors. Well that doesn't make up for all the signatures.
 Oh, then we had prom.
 You had the prom, and then you had... how about the senior, the um... "Sports Banquet". Sports Banquet should award everybody. Not just seniors.
 Yeah, it's got uh--
 Do you want to put that under student--
 I don't...
 What if we-- You cut the prom down to one page, but maybe we could, put it back to two pages, we could show, like the planning of prom and setting it up.
 Okay, but--
 'Cause I'm  on the prom committee.
 Okay, so, and you have your committee meeting, start taking pictures. Guys, remember, we have seven cameras. So take cameras with you when you're having little meetings. Just make sure you're flexible enough, just in case we don't have enough pictures, you can flip back to one page instead of the signature. I mean, instead of a spread.
 Well,  I don't know how we're gonna fill up the signature then.
 Well you don't have to have-- we can move everything up.
 And then  we move seniors up into another half of the signature, and that half would have to be colored. Because it's the senior signature.
 Um... Do you have a section for committee?
 We had those  in with the clubs. With like, all of their-- what they do in the community.
 Okay, if you want, you can bring it up a little more. Just the overall community that doesn't have a club. And use up that space. Like the blood drive. The blood drive is not part of the school.
 Rotary does that.
 Rotary, yes, but that's the... interact is with Rotary, yes?
 Yeah, we help with that. We help Rotary.
 But you also do the "Victorian Classic"?
 Yes.
 You don't have enough space. You need to put the blood drive up. I mean, how much space breaks--
 A spread.
 Oh, Interact has a spread?
 Yeah, we've  covered this three times now.
 Okay, sorry. Yes, but we've changed it three times. So... Find other community things. Well, if you want, do you want to talk about the tax bill?
 Well, that's not  really student life.
 It's going to affect your life.
 Yeah, but...
