You're totally fine. So you guys will be using, I'm assuming a meter tape?
Yeah.
For measurements? And then can you take a minute to explain the balance thing again so we're good?
Strength versus strength qualifies ten times.
Ok so I like that you're making everyone go clockwise, everyone's doing ten, alright.
And then see how long they can balance on their most dominant foot.
Ok.
There's a max of 60 seconds and no shoes on.
No shoes on, ok perfect. You guys are good. Ok so wingspan, what are your units you guys are measuring in? Centimeters and you're going tip to tip right? And then what was the ability again?
They'll take their shoes off, try to touch their toes. And then we'll measure the distance from their finger tip to the top of their foot.
Ok, good. In what units?
Centimeters.
Centimeters. Did you say take shoes off or no?
Yeah.
Ok, cool. You guys can start collecting data. I'll come back to you. Ok what do you guys got?
 Same thing we got yesterday.
Recap me.
Hair color,
You were hair color. Why the hell don't you have something else?
 I don't know.
Ok, so here's my question. Cause I was thinking about this last night. You're gonna be asked to make a scatter plot graph of this data. How would one go about making a scatter plot with hair color? Ok, so you're gonna assign numbers, numeric data to shades?
 Zero to ten. Or one to ten.
One to ten.
Yeah.
One being the,
lightest.
 The lightest 
lightest. We should probably get this straightened out before we do it, right? And then ten being the darkest. Ok, before you start collecting it can you just give me a really quick specturm. Draw a line out so I could see where you're getting your number data. And then what is your characteristic? That was your characteristic. What is your ability?
How many steps does it take you to walk backwards seven feet?
Ok, so we'll probably do that in the hallway? Does that sound fine? Meter tapes are up there.
 That's a lot of guys.
So give me a real quick scale then you guys can start.
Ok.  One and ten. So that's blonde and really blonde. And like really dark brown.
So where would red fall in?
Like me? Like right there.
So you're gonna make blonde one end. The low end, are we all in agreeance on that?
 Yeah and mine is like in the middle.
 Ok, and then the other far end's gonna be the darkest brown?
 Yeah.
 Or black.
Or black. Are you gonna have everyone taking data on that? Or maybe one or two people just consistently doing the hair color? You know what I mean so there's not a ton of variation? 
Measure their hand from first crease to their middle finger. And then hopping on one foot, right? On your tiptoe? Or no, balance, balance. And then once your heel touch into the ground, it's done. And your hands can do whatever you want.
 Ok, are we shoe on, shoe off?
Shoe off.
 Shoe off and is it right or left foot? Right foot for everybody? Ok. Right foot shoe off on tiptoe
Max two minutes.
Max two minutes so the deciding factor when to stop the stopwatch is when their heel hits the ground.
Or their other foot.
 Or their other foot. So it could be either or. Okeydoke. So just a kind of a flashback to remind us. This has been a couple daytime span here. Our goal behind this is try to determine what we can learn from a fossil. So as we work through this unit we're gonna start building together pieces of information that help us come up with ideas about the past. We've been specifically, as I've said before looking at one specific fossil, foot fossil length, right? The idea behind this is that scientists put the pieces of the puzzle together, we start to get a clear image of what's going on. Again, our goal was to determine if there's a relationship between the characteristic you chose, the ability you chose, and a person's foot fossil. I asked you last night to plot up your data for both characteristic and ability and then if possible draw a line of best fit. That could be an indirect relationship, a direct one, a trend, or no relationship. What I'm gonna ask you to do for a minute, talk to your neighbors. Compare your data. Make sure we're on the same page in determining a relationship. And then I'd like you to come up and post your data. It's gonna be a pretty simple process to post your data. So for example, if group one, what was your characteristic?
 For fossil length.
Hand spans. We're gonna put characteristic on the left side so they're gonna right hand span for us. And then what type of relationship did you guys see for that?
 Direct.
Direct, so all you're gonna do is do this. That's all we need to report. Ok, in your lab packet, you are going to find some little graphs. You're gonna be asked to record everyone's data. I've also given you a supplementary sheet cause you're gonna need more graphs. I messed up and didn't tell you. So what's gonna wind up happening is all the graphs would appear on here. You will also copy down into your packet because as a whole you'll be looking at everyone's data and drawing conclusions, ok? So take a minute to talk to your groups. I'll come around and give you some markers. Determine what your characteristic and ability relationships are. Post them on the board and then we'll talk. 
No
Can you determine it?
No.
Cause they're not. They're just kind of clustered. It was like more not clustered.
Ok, so we're gonna have a trend fall in between where?
I guess the trend really is between 15 and
What are we lacking?
You know what, it was 12:30 last night, Fossil, foot length, stride length.
Ok, so we're having a trend falling between, what's our lowest?
Our lowest is 12 and our highest is 23 but like the trend is between these ones. 
Ok, I think that works. So you're gonna give a horizontal line on your graph up there. Need help? Ok, whatcha got?
 Would you draw a line for a trend?
Yeah it would either be vertical or horizontal just like we did in the beginning. So this person's kinda like an outlier right so let's just for argument's sake take them out. Does that help clear the data up at all? You could say no, it's ok.
They're all kind of in the same foot length but they all have different times.
Ok, so we've got a pretty wide range here, right? For trend, we tend to see more of a skinnier range. So if you look at our options, it's definitely not a direct or indirect I would say based on what you showed me, right? Trend-wise, it's kind of a wide range. So what would we determine, what's our other option?
No relationship.
Yeah, I would probably go. So up there instead of drawing a line just write no relation, ok? Here's your marker.
With this one, cause it's kind of like a trend or kind of just focused in this area. But then there's also the increase
Ok, so here's my question. That's a good question. When I look at this data, right? If I had a pick, excluding this line, if I had to pick where someone with a foot fossil over here would fall, where would you pick? Up here? Why? Yeah, it appears to be going this way. So that would indicate that you have a direct relationship. It's kind of the easiest way to look at it. Ok group number one. Hand span versus foot fossil length and then jump height. What kind of relationship are we seeing here? Direct, so the bigger the foot fossil, the bigger the hand span. So just to clarify hand span, we're talking tip of thumb to tip of finger. Correct? Why do we see that? So I asked you guys last night to jot down some ideas in the conclusion section. so you might want to turn to that page, everyone, cause you wanna gather some ideas here. Why are we seeing this? Why do you think we're seeing that relationship? What did you guys say?
Because your hands and feet are usually proportional in size. You're not gonna have a very large foot and have very small hands. Usually.
 Ok. So I have a question for everyone in class. I bought some new shoes and I like them. Do you like them?
 They're so big on you. 
They're a little loud. Don't worry I won't wear them on testing days. They look good?  What's the problem here? They're like way too big, like twenty sizes too big. How do you know? Why do you know that my foot's not this big? Yeah, it doesn't look proportional to my body. And exactly what Megan said, bodies in general are proportional. Now we go through some stages in our lives where we have long, really lanky arms. Or you might know someone that has extremely long legs. They're kind of fitting outside that pattern. But in general, bodies are proportionate, right? And so we can probably makes some connections to certain body characteristics based on other body characteristics, right? Because of this idea that we are proportioned. You're not gonna see Shaquille O Neal wearing a size three shoe. He'll fall over. He wouldn't be able to support his own body. Common sense applies here. That's a good one. Jump height. So you said pretty much everyone kind of fell into one kind of area but there's no indirect or direct relationship. Why do you think we saw that?
Jump height is an ability versus,
Ok, jump height is an ability, you are correct.
 It depends on muscles versus structure.
Ok, so it's depending more on muscle as opposed to structure of your foot.
I remember the class like could already reach so that played to our height and the proportions of our body and then in turn determined how high I could jump in itself so I guess with your foot, depending on what size shoe you have, that in turn kinda determines your height because of the proportions of your body.
By having them reach, guys. What was your point? When you set up your lab? Cause I remember distinctly talking to you guys you said you're gonna have them make a mark and then they're gonna jump.
 Well it's so that the taller people didn't just automatically jump higher than everybody who was shorter than them. Cause then it's already the distance, like how high they can actuall jump as part of how tall they are.
Ok. So you're saying that by measuring the height, you factored that idea in. So Mr. Bieber isn't totally outjumping say Adrian who's a little bit shorter. So you already kind of factored that in. Why did we not see a connection though? Megan said jump height deals with more muscle mass maybe? opposed to foot.
 Cause everybody kind of jumped the same. There wasn't any variation. So it didn't really matter what foot size you have.
Ok. So when you say jump the same you mean achieve the same scores roughly? They found the same general area in that same general pattern?
 That's why theres a trend. It was all in just one spot.
So in general when we're looking at fossils, would jump height be one that we could solely predict then based on the length of the foot fossil?
 No.
Probably not. Which kind of makes sense anyway. Group two. Group two didn't get their data plotted but let's take a peek. They did foot fossil length and height. If you were to make an assumption, if there was a relationship, what would you all assume would be the relationship? Direct, why direct?
 Cause it's proportional.
Bingo, bodies are proportional. You're gonna see that pattern as we work through this. Proportional, ok? Average stride.
 We didn't really get a graph but it didn't look very direct. It was a little more indirect.
More indirect?
 I think so.
Like this? So you're saying longer?
No, no. Like there wasn't really a pattern.
Oh so your'e saying no relationship?
Yeah.
Does that make sense? Alana says no. I saw this. Why?
Well just based on the proportional idea, if your height and hand span is proportional to your foot length then your legs then, the length of your legs are also proportional to your foot lenghts and the length of your stride based on the length of your legs.
So you're arguing that you think we should see what kind of relationship?
 I think, a direct.
You would say direct. Claire and then Barrett.
Well, cause we had the same thing but a little bit different. And, well, backwards. It couldn't really be that accurate because it wasn't a very long distance. and people had different ideas of walking. Some people were trying to take larger steps or being more careful or walking slower. It wasn't just like an average.
So you are saying based on the idea of body proportions that we should see a direct.
But you're saying, you agree that we should see direct
 No we should see an indirect.
An indirect? Longer leg, shorter strides? Direct. Longer legs, longer strides. But you're arguing that the way maybe that the experiment was set up didn't lend itself to collect proper data?
 Yeah.
Ok, good point.
I think it was also just, I was asked just to walk like I normally do and I don't take very long strides. I kind of walk really slow so my strides are very small when I just normally walk.
Ok so you almost felt it was kinda awkward like how am I supposed to walk. So maybe we could have captured it in a different manner. We could have designed the experiment if you're already walking and then you walk past the line and maybe keep carrying through that stride.
I think no relationship is accurate because my stride length I would assume is based on how long my legs are. I have very long legs but everybody knows I have a small foot. I mean I'm still proportional like I'm normal sized but my legs are just a lot longer than anything else.
Ok so you're kinda arguing that maybe you're not always going to fall into every part of your body being specifically proportional.
There was a lot where some people with kinda smaller feet had relatively longer strides and some people with big feet had smaller strides. It was kind of just all over the place.
Ok. So what are we labeling this? Direct, question mark, no relationship, question mark.
 If we're basing it on the data that they had, I'd say no relationship.
Ok, if we're basing it on the data, even though we didn't plot it. Looking at their actual data, we would say no relationship. Could there be a point where we could argue that we might potentially see a direct relationship? Yes. So for our data collection, we'll leave no relationship. But keeping in mind that very valid point that if' you're gonna have longer feet, more than likely you have longer legs. More than likely you're gonna take longer strides. But inherent as Claire said in the kind of setup of the experiment, that maybe that didn't shine through. Group three. Hair color versus foot fossil length. No relationship. Is this shocking to anyone?
Yes. Even though they had a great numeric scale? Why? Why no relationship Bubs?
 I didn't have anything to do with it.
 It's like a gene base.
Hair color is determined by
Your DNA.
Does your DNA determine your foot length?
 Yes it does.
 But not the same gene.
Ok but not the same gene. Ok, now you're getting very technical, I appreciate that. Yes sir.
I think its partially because 
Would you think that there would be a connection? Like smaller foot, lighter hair?
 Well go on for like racial background like your ethnicity, Some ethnic groups are generally taller and have bigger feet than the others.
Ok so maybe you're arguing the sample size? The idea that we were to survey globally, maybe we could see certain ethnic backgrounds that tend to be taller, would have different, I could see that. Yeah.
Well, I think it has nothing to do with it because I'm six feet tall and Franco's under five feet and we both have dark hair. So obviously.
 Yeah it's got nothing to do with it.
Ok so on face value, looking at hair color. Would we say that foot fossil length would be a good indicator of hair color?
 No.
Ok, I would agree. There's no connection there. No connection. My question though, is. There are organisms that lived in the past. And we have very, I would say. We have certain ideas about what their coloring was like. How would we come up with that, then? How would scientists come up with that idea? Of the coloring of certain organisms? Caroline.
Well if you say that lizards would be, or dinosaurs would be green, it would help them blend into their environment so you would assume it would be good then to be green but you don't know for sure.
So you're thinking evolutionary connection. It'll be beneficial for them to be able to blend in their environment,
 Yeah.
Yes Claire.
I think you also said a few days ago. About how you're supposed to assume everything in the past works how it does now. So if you see some type of reptile in the past it probably looks something like a reptile now.
Ok, so again you're doing that evolutionary connection to modern day relatives saying well if they appear to be this color, possibly due to some benefit, we can assume in the past. Good, nice job.
