Two times two--
Aggregating rules, smaller the denominator, the bigger the fraction.
That don't work sometimes.
I know what you're thinking.
Six eighths, okay.
One, two, three.
Hey, look.
Four, five, six.
You know it's like division, too.
Yeah, that's--
Okay, six eighths?
Versus what? Six eighths versus three fourths?
Okay.
One, two, three, four, five, six.
They're equal, they're equal.
One, two, three.
They're equal.
I just did that.
They're equal.
Wait, wait, wait. Wait.
That's what I said, didn't you hear me say that? I said if you do equivalent fraciton--
It is.
Divide by two.
Can we do it the easy way?
Nah, cause this is basically the easy way, I mean, look--
Okay, what if we didn't have tiles?
What if we didn't have--
Imagine if we didn't have tiles. We'd have paper and pen. People back in the days, they never had colorful--
They didn't have a pencil, neither.
Oh, yeah, well, you know what I'm talking about.
They had clay and a pointy stick.
All right, so, where's the paper? You guys want to use a pen or pencil?
I already got one.
So, who wants to go first?
I'll go first. I will. Okay, group members. 
I can't really explain it.
You can't really explain it? Then show me. If I said, "four tenths" and "one third." Okay, so then how do you know that four tenths is bigger than one third, looking at those fraction bars?
Because you add this and minus this. It's... It's one more than you need.
No, because if you add one tenth to one third, it's still going to be bigger.
Oh, yeah.
All right, but just looking at these two. If I said "one third and four tenths," which one's bigger?
Four tenths.
Four tenths.  How do you know by looking at them?
Because... Three, four. Like, six.
Four tenths. It's wider than one third.
Good, it's wider than one third. So now you guys just finished envelope number two, and you guys have a couple questions to answer about envelope number two. Who's turn is it to write?
Kayla.
Kayla's? So, why don't you read the group question for envelope number two?
Without using the fraction tiles, how could you explain to someone why five twelfths is smaller than one half? How could you explain it to them that five eighths is bigger than one half?
So, what about that question? How would you explain to someone that five twelfths is smaller than one half?
Just like we told you, it's because twelve, well, twelve six is half of...
Six twelve.
Yeah, six twelve. Is half of a twelve. And five is just a little bit smaller than six twelfths.
Okay, very good. What about, what about five eighths is bigger than one half? Israel, what do you think? How would you explain to someone why five eighths is bigger than one half?
Five eighths?
Yeah.  How could you explain to someone that five eighths is bigger than one half, this question right here? How would you explain to someone that five eighths is bigger than one half?
Because like more eighths, one eighth, is bigger than like one, and like, more it adds one half, and one half--
So, what number would eight as a denominator would be exactly one half?
Huh?
Which number, which fraction, with eight as the denominator, would be equal to one half?
Four eighths.
Why do you say four eighths?
It's one half.
Can you show me with the fraction tiles?
Didn't you say not to use the fraction tiles?
I know, but I want him to see that he's right, that four eighths is equal to one half. Okay, guys, okay, good. So, then, how would you explain to somebody why five eighths is bigger than one half?
It's one more, one more you add to it.
You know that one eighths is equal to one half, because they're like even numbers?
One eighth is equal to one half?
Four eighths, four eighths.
That four eighths is equal to one half. Okay. All right, guys, keep on going. Answer the questions for envelope number two, and you guys can get started on envelope number three, okay?  All right, guys. So, you guys are on envelope number one?
Yeah. We're done with envelope one, we're just like answering this question.
You're doing what?
We're done with envelope one, but we're answering it.
Okay, so what is the question for envelope number one? Anthony, can you read it?
It is--
Someone in the class said that nine tenths was more than one third, because the bigger the number, the smaller the fraction. Are they correct? How would you explain to them where they were correct or incorrect?
So, that's something that I've heard a lot of people in the class say. That the bigger the denominator, the smaller the fraction. Is that always true?
No.
No, why?
Well, because, well, the smaller the denominator, that means like, sometimes it could be like smaller, smaller, but sometimes, I think, like, well, actually--
You're doing good, keep on going.
Well, since like, they're the whole--
Okay.
So, like, two pieces is two pieces, one's shaving it all away and the other one is for...
So, what does the denominator actually tell you about a fraction?
How many pieces the thing is cut into.
How many pieces it's cut into. What does a numerator tell us about a fraction?
How many are shaded.
How many are shaded. So, then why, right here, why right here, is nine tenths so much bigger, or bigger than one third?
Because it's close to one whole.
Because it's close to one whole. And how could you explain it with what we just talked about? Savannah?
Because it's 10 is the denominator and three is the other, so if there's 10, that means there's 10 of the small pieces, and there's nine of the small of those pieces.
But there's nine of those pieces. So, how many of those pieces are shaded in?
Nine.
Good. And what about for one third? How many pieces would we shade in for one third?
One.
Good. All right, guys, well, keep on going. Keep on going, you guys are doing well. Try to answer these questions, and then start with envelope number two, okay? All right, guys, keep going. All right, so which envelope are you guys on right now?
One, we're answering the questions.
You're answering the questions?
Yeah, and now I'm writing it down.
Four. 
So, what did you say? What did you actually say for the second question?
Oh, we, like, if you just, I'm not gonna say it exactly how she wrote it, but we just, we all agreed that if you keep--
Simplifying.
--simplifying a fraction, into its lowest terms, and if it can't go any lower, than like, then it's one half or one third, you'll know if, if it's equivalent to one half.
Or you can find a common denominator.
You can find a common denominator, and that will allow you to do what?
To see if they're both the same number.
To see if they're both the same number?
Yeah.
Pretty much, the same number.
Okay, why don't you guys start envelope number two, then? Open up envelope number two, and see how you order these on the fraction line.
Let's try one half first. First, three fourths. Wait.
Wait.
Yeah, three fourths goes right there, five eighths goes right here. No, no, it'll go right here. Wait. It goes right here.
So why don't you guys use the fraction bars, then, to figure it out?
Because I know three fourths is half of one--
Three fourths is...
Half of, wait.
No, it would be more.
It's half of--
It would be more. It would be right here.
Wait, I want you, I want you to explain that a little bit better for me. You said that three fourths is half of one half?
I mean one fourth is half of one half.
OK, one fourth is half of one half, so what about three fourths, then?
And three fourths would go right here, because two fourths is equal to one half, and three fourths would be in the middle between one whole and one half.
Right.
Also, I was going to say that since we all know one half is right here, three fourths would go in front of five eighths, because one half of eight is four eighths, and then that goes right here one half of fourths is two fourths, and then, that's not the same. Three fourths of eight would be six eighths.
Good. And how do you know that four over four goes right over here?
'Cause it's one, it's one whole. Wait. No, that would be the same place as three fourths. Wait, yeah, that would be the same place.
Why would it be the same place?
Because--
Oh, it is.
You said it's an equivalent fraction, can you explain what they said? Why did they say that three fourths and six eighths are equivalent fractions?
Because they're the same. Because, because four times two is eight, and three times two is six.
Okay. And why does that make two fractions equivalent, then? Could you show me using fraction tiles? 
I'll help you.
You can do this.
Four, five, six.
So how many of these do you need?
Six, seven.
So what are you getting the six for?
I'm getting eight six.
I already have six, though.
Three fourths.
One, two, wait, where are the fourths?
I believe right over, oh.
Okay, so show me, show me using the fraction tiles why six eighths is the same as three fourths. What do you notice?
We notice that they're the same length.
They're the same length.
And, also, we know that pretty much what Akosha said, that if you multiply, or if, yeah, if you multiply, like, if you multiply three times two, and four times two, it's six eighths, because four times two is, yeah, four times two is eight, and three times two is six.
Do you notice anything else about it here?
That two eighths equals one fourth.
Good. Good. All right, guys, let me see the rest of this.
Yeah.
How did you know that five twelfths was less than one half? Go ahead.
Six is half of twelve, and five twelfths is lower than six twelfths.
Okay. Okay. Why did you know that one third is inbetween one fifth and five twelfths?
'Cause, like we don't that the smaller the denominator, the bigger it is, and so, one fourth would be in the middle. So, that would be on the other side of one fourth.
Okay. All right, guys, keep on going. You're doing good. 
We've over. It's over.
So, which one are you guys on now?
Four, but we need help with one of the questions on three.
Five, no, we need help on number four.
Let's look at the question on number three that you guys are stuck on, then.
We're not. We just have a question on what it is.
A conjecture.
A conjecture. So, conjecture is something that we, we've talked about before in math. If it says, "What conjecture," it's kind of like what a hypothesis is in science.
