You're going to test and be coming up here for materials. Okay, go.
You just follow the lines.
If, no, if the lines, if red lines are drawn on a white piece of paper, the termites will follow the lines.
We should draw, like a bunch of different circles and different colors and see which one they follow.
 And we'll make it like this.
Well, it's not going to be on a circle.
 It can be like this and see if they'll follow that circle.
 Yeah.
 Would that be a good, may I bother you with this?
 I'm just covering them up.
 What are you saying?
 Yeah, well beside this one. If termites... we'll place on a red piece, on a white piece of paper with a red circle and red lines, then the termites will follow the lines, in the circle.
Okay, so you're going to use the color red line again. What color paper would you use?
White.
White paper?
Yeah.
And I think since we've already used colored paper, I think that's a result of that.
Well, again you could do yours and yours and tie them together. Use different colored papers, so what's the point of your test?
That depending on the colored paper we'll determine what the termites sight can do.
I would think it's the color of the line because that's what they're following.
So, you think they're following the color of the line?
 Yes.
Yeah, but when they went to the end of the white paper, they went to the black and they came right back.
 Well, no, that's because they knew what it was, that's because I, like, kept hitting them back.
 Okay, so you're kind of going along with the idea of color. How could you prove that color was...
That color effects their...
 You draw a bunch of different circles, draw a bunch of circles about the exact same size, but of different colors and see which one they go to?
I like that.
Nice, okay.
On a white piece of paper?
 Yeah.
Again I've got colored paper. The more tests you do, the more accurate your results would be.
All right, so let's do the same test but on two different types of paper. So, if termites are placed on a white piece of paper...
 Put that on top of it just so we block some of the light out. No, that down. Good, and there you go. So, what were we thinking about testing?
Um, putting tables in line using different color.
And to see if, we're not going to finish the circle and see if they follow it around.
 Oh, very nice.
Yeah, because we drew a line leading back to the thing and they followed it down.
 They followed it down...
 Tricky, okay.
 They went, it's true.
 So they didn't follow this part?
 Yeah, because it curves.
 No, because they...
 We drew the circle.
 They go, like, then they curve and go down.
 And they came here and went back up. They all followed.
 Hmm, interesting. Thank you, four. You've got about two more, about a minute and a half actually. What are we thinking? I'm going to go ahead and cover these up.
We were planning on doing, um, like, we think they're attracted to the ink and I'm going to test it with like a marker, a pen, and a crayon.
 Okay.
To see if, like, if they follow the ink better than the other ones.
Nice, would you use the same color of ink?
Yeah, because it would be the control.
 There you go, very nice? Um, what color paper are you going to use?
Should we use regular?
White.
I would say white yeah.
All right, good. Okay, sounds good. Where are your termites? Stop playing with them and we're going to actually cover them to kind of get the light out. What were you guys thinking about testing?
Mainly, if they are going to follow the red line, then they must be attracted to red.
 They must be attracted to what?
 Red.
 Red? Okay, so how could you test that they are just attracted to red?
We're going to make two large circles.
 Two large circles...
 And some other lines.
 And some other lines...
But, what are you testing again?
If they go to the red line then they must be attracted to red.
Okay, so you're talking about the color red. Um, would you use, so you tell me what you're going to set up. I'm trying to follow.
 Probably just a black one and a red one.
Lines or circles?
 Circles.
Circles? Okay, all right.
Yeah, basically just for fun.
 Okay, okay, just for fun, all right. Um, you should be collecting materials. If pens and things aren't working, let me know.

 Dude, get the line.
 What happened to your situations?
Well we put tape over this and now it doesn't follow it over here.
 I think they like the color red.
 None of them are following any of these lines.
 How could you continue to test that they like the color red?
 Put more red over here?
 I mean, we also put the tape there and it doesn't like the tape. It gets confused.
 And we have the red paper and it didn't follow the black lines.
 Or the pencil.
 Yeah, that's what I mean.
 None of them here are even doing anything.
 They get tired and just start standing there twitching.
 Do you need some new ones? No, there are still pretty lively.
 Yeah.
 So, what are some of the conclusions that you're thinking? Oh, Terrance, be sweet.
 Ah, be sweet.
 Ah, white on red.
 They only like that. Also they only follow that type of pen. They don't follow any other type of pen or pencil. Um, they don't necessarily have an affiliation to red.
 Okay, how do you know that?
'Cause they walked off the red paper?
 Okay, they walked off the red paper? So, you threw that one out. How could you continue to say that they like that particular pen, and not having to do red?
 We tried black pen.
 We haven't tried another color on white yet.
 See look, it stopped at the tape.
 It's confused at the tape.
 No, Neal, what I asked you is that a pen or a marker? It's a pen.
 It's a pen.
 Oh, he's following the other...
 We drew it on the other side...
 We drew a circle on the other side.
 It looked like he was following it.
 Is it something inside of them?
 No.
 Like, what the ink's made out of?
 How could you test that?
 Using the red pen on this?
 Okay.
 Taking two different pens...
 Go grab some more. That's a good idea.
Red color pen, red color pencil.
You killed the ant...
 Gentlemen, be nice to your termites.
 Oh, oh, wait... wait?
 Here Neal, let's get...
 All right, group, here's a red pen, colored pencil.
 Oh, look! That one's alive!
 Okay, now then, so what are you saying is going on?
They're still following the red one. Yeah, they're still following the red pen. So, it's not necessarily an affiliation to the color red.
 So, it is something inside the ink.
 So, how can you test if it's something inside the ink?
I just got the other colored pencil.
 Take another red pen.
 Go grab some.
 It's right there.
 That's a pencil.
 It's the color red, look.
 Stick with the, no, you just threw out the idea that it's red. Stick with the color... stick with the pen idea.
 We need a pen like this.
 No, I think we have the exact same pen.
 No, no, the blue one like this.
 They have a blue one like that?
 Go see, there's blue pens up there.
 Hey, can we borrow a red pen? I meant blue, you know what I meant.
 Bam, it's a different type of pen.
 It's all right.
 Different type of pen, but it's blue now.
 Did you get a blue one?
 No, I just got red ones. I got bundles. 
 Nice.
 Now they're going to follow it.
 Now, I thought we were going to get away from the red idea and go with the pen.
 I think it's that pen.
 I've got the same pen.
 They're still the red. I think they are.
 Okay, try that one.
 There's a hole there, by the way. If you press through it, it will break.
 Go.
 Are you going to make it intercept the line?
 Yeah I'm going to.
 Oh, look, he's following the little one.
 Maybe it likes circles.
 Wait, wait.
 I still think it's something inside the ink.
 Draw a square. See if it follows a square.
 So, that would be able, you would be able to throw out your idea that it likes circles if you drew the square. So draw a square, see what happens.
 Yeah, draw a square.
 I've got another black pen. I have all these pens.

 Why not draw the square inside of there?
 Inscribe the square in the circle. Terms...terminology.
 You're a professor now.
 Oh, it's following it!
 It is the pen.
 Curves are easier.
 It didn't know where the line was.
 Okay, five, four.
 Um, we drew different lines in the different types of pens, markers, colored pencils.
 Did you do it all on the same page or on different pages?
On different colored pages.
 Why would you do it on different colored pages?
 Ah, to make sure the tests varied?
 Okay, did you use the same color of ink on each page? Describe to me your experiment web. The whole group can chime in too.
 Um, like we drew, like a black circle on a black sheet of paper.
 Okay.
 To see if they could only like...
 Please don't be rude.
 Black circle on a black sheet of paper. Keep going, what else?
 And that didn't work. They could not see it or follow it or anything so we decided to go with an experiment that Christian came up with, that take a white piece of paper and we drew, like,  every kind of color their was all at once and they seemed to only the follow the blue or red circles. None of the other colors.
What were the blue and the red circles drawn with?
 I believe different types of stuff. Mainly pen though.
And this was all on one sheet of paper?
 Well, we tried it on different sheets too.
Okay.
 That's what started us off.
Okay. Um, did you have it all on one sheet at first?
Yeah.
Okay, what did you realize was wrong with that?
They were pretty much getting confused.
As in we're going to have issues with what? Maintaining?
 A control?
A control, good. Only one independent variable, nice. Um, Nick's group, how did you go through the indentation?
We drew several circles using each of the utensils and then I think we placed the termites in the middle and they all sort of, if they weren't in the middle, sort of eating off of the wood or, like, just exploring around, they were following the pen.
Okay, um, your indentation line, did you draw that with just pens, different types of pens, did you draw it with markers, did you draw it with a paper clip?
We just used the same color but we used different things. Like we used pens, Vis-A-Vis, colored pencils, stuff like that.
 Okay, and what was your conclusion with that?
They followed the pen because we thought it was the one that had the most distinct indentation.
 Because they came, the termites, into that line, because we saw them go up to the edge and because they would feel there is a drop, and I figured oh, well they must be blind because they can't see that there's a drop there.
 Interesting point. Why might you have used a paper clip as well to create the indentation, instead of a pen?
Because it wouldn't have shown a color, but it would have still left the same indentation as a pen.
Okay, so any components within that pen, color, chemicals, type of pen, whatever, if you would have used the paper clip and then followed that indentation, you would have been able to do what? Pen verses paper clip.
Pen would have looked, I think it would have looked...
 The paper clip  would have looked deeper,
but the thing is, like,  would it prove if you had it or not.
 Had what or not?
 If they followed the dent or not. Not just like, the color or the like, smell, or whatever.
 Very good, very good. So, by using the paper clip to create the indentation, they would have been able to rule out any type of color from the pen that left the indent, maybe the scent from the pen, the chemical from the pen that left the indent. By doing the paper clip just by itself, we would have been able to say okay, that obviously doesn't leave any chemicals, it doesn't leave any color, and if they're following that indentation, we know that that's what they are drawn too. Okay? Carly, your group had an interesting set up.
Um, we, well we kind of did two.
 All right.
But the first one, we have like a black piece of paper and we bordered it with, like, white pieces of paper and we drew a white circle in the black piece of paper to see if they would go away from the white to go to the darker paper. And that didn't really work, so we did the other one and, um, with, like, the different colors of circles on a white piece of paper, and they only went on the red pen one.
 Okay, what could have been a variable in your experiment that you just described? As in something that might have thrown off the results?
Paper? I don't know.
 Well, notice in one of the experiments you used a what, to create the circle?
The pen.
 Okay, you used a pen and in the other experiment you used a what?
Paper?
 But you used a... Oh, white, yeah, you used a white colored pencil. So, by using a colored pen and then a white colored pencil, what are those two things now? Added on what?
 Variables.
 Added on variables. Okay, for one you're using pen and pencil, another you're using colors. So, how could you have made your experiment a little bit more definite that would of maybe ruled out some of the other variables? Gentlemen, calm down.
We could have used colored pencils the whole time.
Okay, could have used the same color colored pencil the whole time. Good. Um, what group haven't I talked to? Matthew, explain to us the set up of your group.
Do you want to start?
I don't know what to say.
Oh, okay then we started off thinking that they followed the color and so we drew with a different type of pen and it did not follow it, so we decided maybe it's not color. So, we took a black pen, a big one. Um, we took a black pen,  and then two red pens of different type, and two blue pens of different type, and they only followed the specific type of pen red and blue. It was the BIC pens, so we decided there must be something in that, in the chemical structure of that ink that's, you know, similar to some sort of pheromone of some sort. Um, and the termites followed it.
Okay, um, did you think of the pheromone thing yesterday?
Yeah.
After school.
That was extracurricular.
 All right so...
But we figured out the BIC pens. We figured that out.
Okay, good. Excellent set up there. Were there any variables that, when I was over there earlier you had different shapes with the different pens?
You got this?
Yeah, we were drawing with different shapes 'cause it followed the circle and then we were trying to get them back inside the thing. So, we drew a line pointing down there so they would follow it. And they did follow it but then we realized it might not be the shape, it might be in the pen or the color.
 They don't really like sharp angles though. We drew a square and they got lost.
 Yeah.
They couldn't find the angle.
 Okay, interesting. So, um, if any of you did do any sort of research , you were able to find that the pheromone that termites emit, and we learned that those were what? Pheromones?
 Enzymes.
Enzymes, not enzymes. What are pheromones having to do with? We just spent three days on it.
 Animal behavior.
Animal behavior, communication, their chemical signals. Okay, so we learned that termites emit these pheromones. We might have encountered this last time and that's the same thing why ants follow a specific trail. Um, when honeybees sense danger, they emit a warning pheromone that tells everybody in the hive to freak out, that danger's coming. But the pheromone that termite's emit to have them follow each other in the hole trails and all of that, the chemical in that mimics or the chemical in the pen, in Bic and PaperMate pens actually, mimics the chemical in the pheromones, which is why they followed certain pens.
