 At the end of class, I want you to be able to explain how to swing the bat faster so the ball will travel further. Because the faster the bat goes, the further the ball's gonna go. And there's three things that we're going to do to make the bat swing faster. Okay, we're going to hold the bat at the end to make it longer. We're gonna hold the end to make it longer. A longer bat means a faster bat. We're gonna use more body parts or muscle when we swing and we're gonna apply more time to our swing by stepping into the swing. And we're learning to bat so that we can play more and more fun games in order to stay healthy. Because there's lots of fun batting games you can play with your friends here at school and outside of school that will help you have a healthy heart and muscles. And we're gonna do four different things today. I'm gonna ask you to talk to a partner, I'm gonna do a little experiment, we're gonna play spotlight tag, and then we're gonna have some personal practice. And I've created a little healthy a little helping worksheet for you that shows you what it looks like. Now all these things will help you know and help you be able to explain how to swing the bat faster. I want you to turn to a partner and tell them as many things, of as many games that you can that use swinging a bat or an impement. Go ahead. 
 Hey everybody, let me  get your attention. If I pull your stick, I want you to tell us a game or an activity that you can do that requires using a bat or an implement to hit a ball or something. We're green? No, we're red. Jeremiah, where's Jeremiah? Yes?
 Softball.
 Softball, very good. Raquel, where's Raquel? What, Raquel? Game or something you can play.
 
 Do we use a bat to play soccer?
 No.
 No. How about...Stephanie? Baseball? Who said golf, what about golf? What about ping pong? Do you know what ping pong is?  Yeah! So all of these activities are things that we can play once we learn how to swing a bat. Now, we're gonna go around the blue house, and you're gonna sit on the red dot until I say go, and I'm gonna do a little experiment to show you how these things can make the ball go further. I would like you to walk, please be careful. Go. 
 Okay, thank you for sitting. Now over there I said the longer the bat, the faster it goes. The faster the bat, the further the ball goes. So I'm gonna show you what I mean. Is this a very long bat?
 No.
 No, so I'm gonna swing and see how far it goes. 
 Did it go very far?
 No.
 Now I'm gonna make that longer. Who thinks it's gonna go further? Let's see if it goes further.  
 It went a little bit further, huh?
 Yes.
 Now, by holding the bat at the end it'll make it longer and it'll go further. Now another way we make the bat go faster is by using more body parts and muscles. So I'm only gonna use a couple muscles here to swing the bat. You think this will this go very far?
 Yeah.
 Yeah? Okay, let's see.
 No.
 I didn't use a lot of muscle. Now I'm gonna use lots of muscles on this step, and I'm gonna twist,  see how far it goes. 
 Do it again, do a lot of muscle.
 Anyone know of any other way we can make the bat go faster? Hit from the bottom?  I had it written over there. Does anyone else remember? I want to make my bat longer, I want to use lots of muscles, and.... Alex?
 .
 That's how we use lots of muscles. I want to swing the bat for as long as I can in order to generate speed. Now, if I start my bat right here and I swing it, do I have lots of time to hit the ball?
 No.
 Do you think it'll go far? Let's see what happens. 
 Now, if I start way back  here, do you think I'll have more time?
 Yeah.
 You think it'll go further?
 Yeah.
 All right, let's see. 
 So, raise your hand if  you want to hit the ball far? Hitting the ball far will help you be successful, and if you're successful, you're going to have a good time. But today we're going to learn different  ways to hit the ball further by making our bat go fast.
 Don't swing; please tell me.
 
 It makes the bat go faster. Why does the bat go faster?
 .
 The bat goes faster, the ball goes faster. But what makes the bat go faster, because it's short or long?
 
 Long. Longer bat means faster. Okay, rotate! Rotate! 
Teacher] Dominant hand on top. Step, twist. We're practicing what grip is the best. 
 How'd that one go?  Fernanda, what grip are you using?
 Mr. Holden, can I go to the bathroom?
 Hurry. 
 Excellent twisting, Derek, excellent twisting! 
 What number are you going to read it? 
 Try this one: hold  your bat with your hands apart. Put your left hand on top. I mean your right hand on the top. Left hand at the bottom. Spread your hands apart like this. Now try it again. How did that go? Is that one good? You think so? Now hold it at the end, see what happens. It's right here. 
 Now hold your hands, put your right hand on the top. Right hand on the top, your right hand on top.  All right, Fernanda. Big step, let's see it. Big step, twist your whole body. Get your bat back, there you go. Try it again. Did the ball go further that time?  
Teacher] Okay, sit behind your  little cone and answer  the question on your card. Alright, now read it out loud for me.   Which grip do you think makes the bat swing fastest? Holding it at the end? Remember when we talked about how long the bat is? A longer bat can travel faster or slower?
 
 Faster, so when you hold it  at the end it makes it longer, and then you can swing it faster, and then the ball goes further. Is that what happened?
 Yeah.
 All right, rotate. 
 Alright, are you going to twist or not twist? 
 Back foot, step. Put your weight on your front foot. 
 Alright, so pretend your feet  are stuck in mud, so you can't move them.
 So we've been learning all the different ways we can make the bat go faster so that we can hit the ball far, because when we hit the ball far, our game and when we're batting is more enjoyable. We've practiced, we've talked about, and we've discussed three different ways to make the bat go faster so that the ball will travel further. When we're batting, okay? I have a sentence frame for you, it says: "I can blank to make the bat go faster "so the ball will go further." Okay, you're in your batting team groups right now. When I say go, I want you to use this sentence frame and discuss the three different ways you can make the bat go faster so the ball will travel further. And then I'm gonna pull our sticks, and you'll get to share with the entire class how you think you can make the bat go faster. So now is your time to use all of the intelligence and brains of your group to figure out your three answers. Are there any questions?
 No.
 Okay, I'm gonna give you about two minutes. Use the sentence frame, discuss with your group. Go ahead.  Alright, how is your group doing? Jesse, you getting to share? I might pick your stick. Talk with Alex. What are we coming up with Jeremiah? How are we gonna make the bat go faster? Do you remember?
Teacher] Okay, how about Alex. Why do we twist, Alex? Alex, why do we twist? Alex, sit up, please. When we twist, we use more what?
 Muscles!
 What color were we? Black or green?
 Red!
 Oh, we were red? Okay second grade, eyes on me, please. Sit down on a number. You've had a nice opportunity to talk with your group to figure out the three ways we can make the bat go faster. If I pick your name, please stand up, speak nice and loud and use the sentence frame, and tell us one way we can make the bat go faster. Let's see here... Jonathan. All right, Jonathan, stand up buddy. Jonathan, use the sentence frame, "I can."
 
 I can hold the bat at the end to make the bat go faster so the ball will go further. Good answer, give him a round of applause.  When we have a longer bat, it generates more speed, and more speed with the bat makes the ball go further. Now there are two other ways you can make the bat go faster.
