 I think that Igneous and Metamorphic, they're the least , there are two books that don't use 'em 'cause they're .
 Well my Igneous .
 Yeah, it . Igneous and Metamorphic cool off and react. And only a few particles came off, but I was .
 Yeah, it's just awkward because mine was, boosting most of yours.
 Well yeah.
 When I did my alien, on my first try, it was 42 grade. Then now when I'm measuring it again, it was 22 grade. It .
 Mine never changed, all it did was lost a little bit of it's rice crispies.
 That was mine. But, I feel like Igneous rock,  like, 20.
 Well yeah. 'Cause the weathering does a lot of things to the rock's outside. And--
 Mine was the same as Igneous and metamorphic .
 And so, if I'd shake it... like through weathering, a bunch of rock would fall off.
 I haven't done anything yet. It was three. I can't wait to--
 Oh. 
 I have to say, the one with the marshmallows 'cause it's .
 Well for my Sedimentary, it was harder.
 Yeah, mine too.
 What  
 'Cause when I did mine, only one piece of my Sedimentary broke apart, and--
 The Sedimentary--
 My Igneous rock--
 It has, like almost .
 It might be a little inaccurate since these are not real Sedimentary rocks. You have to keep that in mind.
 Well yeah.
 So, but what if they were real Sedimentary? Would we be able to tell what they are?
 Yeah.
 Obviously.
 Do you know any Sedimentary rocks that looks like a granola bar?
 Yes, I saw them in my yard. They're called a granola ball.
 No.
 That was probably granite, which is an Igneous rock.
 For Jeanie, do we write just how many lasts? 'Cause mine must've had .
 Okay so when I, when I did the blendering, of my Sedimentary, I lost only three grams off of my, Sedimentary rock. So I'm not sure what would happen if I add these two. 
 Because of the heat out of the, 'cause if you were to put heat to a rock like our little blue Metamorphic rocks, what would happen was the heat would melt it, and it would give pressure to stick down to the tinfoil.
 Yeah, that's how that happens.  because this is probably the farthest off we have from a little while.
 Yeah.
 Like last we , and like have you ever heard of a rock that's called  Metamorphic rock?
 Yeah.
 It can be greasy.
 Let's talk about why we use the models. Obviously, you're never gonna be so lucky as come across a rock that's like the taffy. Why did we use the Laffy Taffy for our model?
 Because the heat and the pressure, the heat and the pressure would like stick together, but like a Sedimentary rock, .
 We use our fingers to add that heat pressure. We had to simulate it somehow, we couldn't do the actual Earth process in the classroom. Do you agree with that?
 Mm hmm.
 Okay, so you understand why, you understand why we use that material for our model? Okay.
 
 Right, it probably melts. And why did we use the microwave for the Igneous rock?
 Because--
 What were we trying to simulate there? 
 From?
 Magma is a really hot substance, and this is what Igneous rocks can form from.
 Could we actually manipulate and touch magma in the classroom?
 No.
 No. Could we work a marshmallow?
 Yep.
 So we understand the connection there. We're trying to use materials, that we can bring into the classroom, but that will still simulate lava, magma, the processes. Okay? So pressure--
 I think it has less effect of all the .
 It had a lesser effect going through the processes of?
 Of both.
 Weathering?
 And erosion.
 And erosion, okay. Now you guys can think about this, if you didn't like the samples and examples up here that I used, you could always do it different. Food material. To make up your own experiment later. Okay?   Let's talk for a moment. Why should we measure again after our rock samples have been through weathering and erosion? Why are we measuring again?

 Look at your rock samples, do they look the same as what we measured in here?
 No.
 No. What happened?
 You have to measure the difference.
 The difference, and why would there be a difference? What could we do to our rock samples?
 
 Changed dramatically when you did the weathering on them. 
 Let's use the same , what did you use when you pre-measured? I would keep it the same. Why would I keep it the same?
 Because it's .
 Can we compare centimeters to inches?
 Yes.
 You can? Think about that, because later when you have to come back and do the difference, how are you gonna do the difference with some centimeters and some inches? 
 How can you compare those two measurements?
 
 You're telling me, you wanna go centimeters here, but inches down here.
Boy in yellow] 
 I would keep it the same. They would make it mathematically . 
 You working on your difference? Your difference in mass? This your pre-mass?
 
 Explain to me how you got to that.
 Where are the books? They might add on to another sedimentary rock, 'cause it's like never ending.
 For some reason, my Sedimentary and my Igneous rock. They both lost a half inch in length.
 Yeah, mine too.
 In my igneous rock grams, it lost 20 grams and my sedimentary lost 10 grams.
 Mine lost no grams.
 Mine gained grams.
 Your gained grams?
 Yeah, I had 17 grams. I had 17 grams, and then it came back to 21. And this one went up one. Because when this one went up three.
 Maybe you should check that over. 'Cause it weathers and erodes away.
 Well, I'm guessing that most of the bits and pieces of the other people's stuff, went into mine, and made it bigger. 'Cause, it can do that, it can. See? Right there. All around the--
 Oh! I see it!
 See? Other bits and pieces of other people's went into mine, and made mine bigger. 
 With mine, a bunch of bits and pieces .
 And mine started to melt.
 Because your observations say it crumbles apart, it's breaking apart and moving.
 
 Okay, what about these gaps here.
 These gaps?
 Yeah, how you gonna do that? 
 For some reason, my Igneous rock . 
 Into the sample?
 It made it bigger.
 Made it heavier? Did it have more mass after the ? Your protective sleeve's coming off. That's a good possibility, that might throw your measurements off. Did it happen to anything else? Any other sample? Now you're working on a difference in...? You gotta find the difference in length and width, and you're gonna find the difference in mass. That's interesting, you could explain that away right there. Mm hmm, isn't that the one, Igneous, the one you were saying got the strange results? You can talk to me then. 
 Well, that's probably how they make the canyons bigger. Maybe because some of the rocks, after rain and the sandstorms, they could just pound together and make a big old rock. So... Okay, so if it erodes off another rock--
 I'm listening, are you talking about real life rocks when they really--erode away Mmhmm.
 And it starts to rain, 'cause a lot of times it's like wind and rain. A lot of times it takes the sand away from the rain, with the rain, and here's another rock, which makes a bigger.
 You're thinking sometimes with real life rocks, you could have actual sediment mixing in with igneous rocks? Right, do you remember how we talked about how igneous can morph back into sedimentary? Those bits and pieces are melding with igneous rock when you have that blend, where igneous is morphing into sedimentary rock, okay? So that would also cause reason for your measurements  I like where you're going with that.  Try to make that connection. You know, Unis was giving me a hard time earlier about how 'metamorphic rock's not made of Laffy Taffy. So how's this go back to rocks in real life'? Think about that. 
 Some of our videos that we were watching? About what salts quartz in these two processes. 
 You have to let the water go down.
 'Cause the heat inside of it could've frozen. 'Cause they heat over there, we had it kinda . 
 Whoa, what's the answer? 
 19 grams.
 19.
 --Igneous--  
 Igneous!
 How could you make that? Explain it to your little sister . She's not gonna be able to understand that, she wasn't here. What could you put on your rock cycle diagram?

 Okay. So you're gonna have .
 This is 17.
 17 for what? Igneous? What about sedimentary? 
 Tell me how Sean needs help.
 Um, he needs help with 
 Okay.  where he's trying to find the mass of the sedimentary rock.
 What do ya mean?
 No, I was saying that it may have gotten darker.
 Darker, because of the heat.
 Yeah.
 A lot of rocks do that.
 Yeah.
 But it could be jus the pink.
 Yeah, it could be, I could write down that, it could be pink.
 Yeah, what happened to my  metamorphic rock, is .
 I can 
 Yeah that's because of this thing.
  in between our finger and 
 Mine, it didn't get darker than mine though. 
 So you could add that to what you put in .
 So how would that affect our measurements? How did it affect your width? 
 Igneous and sedimentary rock could .
 Now talk to me though, if it's in  
 You wanna know why those are there? Because a lot of rocks don't have protection that doesn't help them. And a lot of kids drop theirs inside their bag, which mixed with the Sedimentary.
 It could .
 And sooner or later if it just stays in there and rolls around, guess what it would do? It would also become a sedimentary.
 It's just like the rocks, it's just like the rocks in life It's more similar to real life. 
 Yeah! 
 The eroded bits would stick to other rocks.
 So I just added, like bits. 
 We have bits and pieces.
 See, if I was to shove this in my bag and just roll it around in all of this, this would also become this, because this isn't on the mat. This would begin to stick. And when you ball it together, it makes it appear coloring to it, that show that it's inside there.
 I think that the igneous and the metamorphic rock,  
 After each sample, ones that were weathering and erosion.
 So you're gonna compare your two measurements-- pre-measurement, post-measurement-- to see if there's a difference for each rock.
 Hmm.
 Hmm.
 Do we have to subtract?
 Do we? What's your key word that could tell you what to do? Difference? 
 Go show me, I know you're thinking. You just told me, what key word tells you what to do? 
 Where were we? Finding the mass? After we've done the weathering and erosion? Okay, are you gonna get started?
 Yes.
 Yes. Jack, are you finished with that scale? Can we use manners, please? Can we use manners? Can you say please pass the balance? 
 Talk to me guys, just for a moment, about the differences in those, in your . We've got Ashley's igneous, we talked about that.
 I figured out for the metamorphic that changes did actually happen, because they put the sedimentary, came on to the metamorphic.
 So we can see again, how, just, and it probably had a lot to do with our service and our bag, that's how those pieces of sediment got attached to our metamorphic rock.
 And I think it became darker because the heat  because of the pink.
 And because of the pink?
 Yeah.
 Okay, think about in real life sedimentary rock, when those levels, when those layers are smashed together. Okay, don't some of those layers change the color with all that heat and pressure? Okay, that was your metamorphic. Yes Brooke.
 And also, you get the igneous in there, it sticks to it, and you can just put it inside there, cover the layers off, and it actually gets inside the metamorphic.
 So you all noticed how your rock samples are very true to real actual rocks, and how they could combine with one another, and result in a completely different rock. Okay? So, on your next page where you get to make your rock cycle diagram, maybe you could use those observations and those understandings when explaining your outcome. Not the candy rock cycle, the real one.
 
 It says that you could use a diagram, okay? Using your textbook, Level Readers Science Journal, or the rock cycle experiment that we just completed. Anything you want to be able to explain the rock cycle. Okay?
 
 My igneous has gone down just a bit.
