 How do you know?
Because my dad works .
 Oh, okay. See, I want us to think about that, because that was something that came up yesterday. Sometimes we think, "Oh that's only stuff men do," or, "That's only stuff women do." But, especially mechanics working on engines and stuff like that, we think, "That's a man's job." But you said your dad works with a lot of women, and Kyle, your dad's a kind of a mechanic, too, and he works with a lot of women, too. So girls, think about that kind of thing. Okay, thank you, very good. All right, now Carter come up, please, Carter? All right, Carter. Tell us about the job.
 works on people when they are injured, firefighters work on burning equipment and carrying test hydrants, and inspect businesses.
 Okay, so your job is... ? 

Say it real loud so they can hear you.
A firefighter and a paramedic.
 Okay, and what are the skills that that job uses?
Math, reading, writing, computer technology.
 There it is.
Be proactive, begin with the end in mind, first thing's first, think win-win, synergize, .
 Great, okay. So all of the seven habits, right? Okay, interesting, who's next? And are there women firefighters 
Yes
 and paramedics? Absolutely. Good job, Carter. Okay, Taylor, Taylor Green. All right, Taylor, tell us the job.
A machinist.
 And tell us a little bit about what they do.
Repair and  turbine engines for helicopters and tanks.
 Helicopters and tanks, and they use what?
Math, technology, be proactive.
 Okay, very good. Do you think women can do that kind of job? 
Yes
 Absolutely. Okay, so we said math, technology are big ones there working on the helicopters, tanks, things like that. Okay, next let's have Lexi, Lexi Wilson. All right, Lexi. All right, tell us about your job.
Furniture showroom manager. I assist customers with furniture, purchases, inventory, the furniture we have on hand, update customers' orders.
 All right, and we use what skills?
Math, science. Oh, I wasn't watching you.
 That's okay, not so much science.
Reading, writing, computer technology. Be proactive, put first things first, think win-win and synergize.
 Okay, now I'm gonna ask you a hard question. Science, the person with that job indicated they use science in a furniture showroom management position. How do you think they use science?
Maybe they make the furniture.
 The materials maybe they use, and stuff like that. Good, good job, all right, thank you. Okay, so we can see that all of the skills that we're learning in school right now, especially technology skills, computer skills, reading, math, even science, our parents are using those jobs, uh, skills in their jobs right now in real life. So someday, you're gonna be using exactly what you're doing right now in a job, as well as our personal skills, our seven habit skills, being in charge of ourselves, thinking about things ahead of time, planning ahead, putting first things first, good job. All right, now we're gonna take our group cards, and on the cards you have a job listed, one of the jobs that you're looking at in your group, and a skill that goes along with that job. What I want you to do is, as a group discuss, how can we show the use of that skill in our job that we have, okay? So look at your cards, figure out how you're gonna use the skill listed on the skill card, and then we're gonna role-model to the rest of the class the use of our skill and show how we use that skill in the job that's on that card, okay? So start discussing, and then in a few minutes, I'm gonna call you back and we're gonna start showing the rest of the class our skills.
We're the paralegal. We could do, well for reading skills, we could do filing or we could prepare bills for clients. But to prepare bills for clients, we'd have to read you know, who they are, and then for filing we'd have to read whose bill it was.
 Class, when your children get ready for heading where they go down to gym for the program this morning, we are right now in the process of calling kindergarten, we're gonna get them to head down the hallway to the gym first, and then we're going to have second grade come on down, third grade, fourth grade and fifth grade .
Okay, so Payton is gonna lay on the floor, and then I'm gonna get to do a knee surgery on him. First I'll like get a pencil, pretend I'm cutting the knee open and pulling it, and then cutting the muscle, and replacing the broken parts of the knee bone with--
Like using our skills, we can measure the wire right here.
And we could measure how long it could be for the house electricity circuits, and we can measure how long the wire is, and somebody could be in the house and we could measure how long the wire is.
So, let's do the thing we did yesterday. When you're laying on the floor and I'm trying to put the breath back in you, and then I ask Carly what happened, okay. 
So you two are doing it. Do you think maybe a table and chairs, and maybe a couch, 
Yeah, a sofa.
and then you'll get over behind the table and everything, and then I can say what day and what time.
 And that's writing down what? Writing skills. 
Writing skills.
Very good, very good.
We're gonna show like you, you would be like typing on the computer and you would be, and I would come up and ask what you're doing, and so the other people would know what you're doing on the computer, I would come up and ask what you're doing and you would say, "I'm making a blueprint."
Like, 'cause if we did use set up machines for production, and we use synergize, we'd have to work together to do it, and how do we do that? Miss Kimberly?
 Yes ma'am.
How do we act out setting up for productions, setting up machines?
 Well, since you're act, you want to show synergizing, now what does synergizing mean?
Working together.
 Okay, so you need to involve... ?
Working together.
 Yeah, okay. And certainly with being a mechanic, you're working on, what?
 Machines.
 Machines, and so what you wanna try to demonstrate, is everybody working together.
To build a machine?
 Possibly, that would be a good one, I think. All right, we're going to go ahead and start our demonstrations. So I'm gonna ask Morgan, Landon and Abby's group to show us their skill. And tell us what your job is, tell us what's your job?
A paralegal.
 A paralegal and your skill is?
 Reading.
 Okay. Let's see how they're using reading.
 Second grade and third grade, please come on down to the gym, thank you.
 Okay great, that's good. Now what were they doing?
 Filing, reading...
 Filing, exactly, very good, good job. Okay, let's have Luke, Destiny, Payton, and where do you guys wanna go?
Up here.
 All right. Tell us your job.
Certified surgical tech.
 Wonderful, and your skill?
Put first things first.
 First things first, okay.
Clear!
 Okay, great. So what were some, Luke, what was the first thing you did? The first thing first.
I had to gently cut his knee open and pull it apart.
 And then...
Cut his muscle and pull it open, and then get a mini saw and cut the pieces of the knee bone and replace it.
 Okay and then what would be the last thing that a surgeon does?
Stitch the knee back together.
 Okay, all right, good job.
Clear!
 Good job, first thing's first. Okay, all right, now we wanna see Reagan, Mackenzie, and Logan, let's see y'all. And where do you wanna go? In the middle? Okay, that's fine. And tell us your job.
Electrician that uses math skills.
 Okay, electrician.
Come in.
It's over here.
He's measuring how long the wire is.
3 feet.
 Okay, okay. Now what were they doing?
 Measuring the wire.
 Electrician, and you were, say it again. Say what you were...
We were measuring the wires.
 Measuring. Measuring, okay so, and measuring is part of... ?
 Math.
 Math, very good. All right, good job, good job. Okay, all right, let's have... let's see, it'll be Josh, Alyssa and Taylor G.
Our job is maintenance mechanic--
