 Trying to find meaning for their lives, or were they just trying to, what were they questing for, do you think?
 Well, Gilgamesh was questing for like immortality, and that was for him, and not really his people, but Theseus I think was, I don't know.
 I think Theseus was just trying to help the people of Athens. I don't think either of them were really looking to find that, but they both ended up finding it.
 I think both of them were like looking to help their people, and then I also think like a small part of them was looking for glory.
 I think it's kind  of like looking for their destiny, like they know they're meant for something bigger, but they don't know what it is yet, so they're just looking for what that is, so....
 Then he goes to take the test, and the test kills him. Or not. Then, he goes back to his father, and he realizes that he's just like, you know, the father's really disappointed in the son, and then he's really disappointed until the son, I think it could happen in today's society. I don't know about Gilgamesh.
 Well yeah, it  was a really like--
 Abstract, connecting--
 In the really broad sense, it could happen, but like --
 Like the story line.
 But when you  look at details, then like, no.
 But I mean, minotaurs don't exist. So it probably couldn't happen.
 But like you  were saying, like metaphorically, it could be something, that, you know.
 Like the storyline could happen.
 But metaphorically, you could compare anything.
 That's true.
 Can you explain more of what you mean by metaphorically?
 Like me.
 No, the  only one was like 
 You mean hypothetical.
 Theseus, not like he goes and fights a minotaur, and when he comes back, he's like not dead, but his dad thinks he's dead and kills himself. But it's like Haley said, I guess.
 Thanks!
 If you have like a test, and like you're bad--
 Like a difficult situation  in general.
 Yeah, and like your dad or parents or someone are like, "You can get through this," like, "You can beat it," and they think that you, or like they think that you fail it, or like catastrophe fail it, or they think you do, then they're gonna be kind of disappointed in you, but like they're not gonna necessarily kill themselves because you failed a test.
 But still.
 You can laugh if it was someone else.
 But maybe like on the inside, he's dying.
 Yeah.
 Your turn.
 Okay, I just said, what factors have to be changed to make this apply to modern times?
 Well, the--
 Probably the  whole like fantasy aspect of it would have to be changed.
 At least like  in the... to the culture, like the gods and goddesses aren't like a, you know--
 Big deal?
 Yeah.
 I think that the gods and goddesses kind of like connect with like the people that are, not like in charge, but that are higher up in our society, like the government people, and like parents and--
 I just think  more like mentors, in general.
 Yeah, like people that are higher than us.
 Like anyone  technically could like, you know, that you look up to, that you rely on for help.
 It's like a figure, rather than like-- - Yeah.
 A physical--
 Yeah, god.
 God. Yeah.
 Well my question was, show the similarities and differences between Theseus and his father.
 Ooh, okay. So, I think like they both kind of, they're very different in their terms of like loss and like failure. Because like when Theseus's dad like thought that he was like dead, then he jumped off a cliff and committed suicide. But when like Theseus like was with Ariadne or whatever, and she like helped him to like defeat the minotaur, then he just kind of, you know, left her on an island.
 I think that, I don't really remember how he got in the situation of having to give the people on Crete seven maidens and seven children, but like, I just think that because that happens, and because he does that every year, I think Theseus is a better leader, he's just like better in charge of--
 I think that they're  definitely like different rulers, too. Because like Theseus is more, like including the people like when he goes and like he led his army against Thebes, but doesn't try to like-- most people would like try to steal stuff from the city, but he's just going to like bury the dead, and then he leaves. So like that's more of a nicer leader I guess, whereas his dad wasn't really like put in that situation, but I'm guessing that he would be one of those people who would probably take stuff from that city, and not include people very often.
 It says that 
 Because he lived  with his mom, so he didn't want to have a son. So then when he could lift the rock, then he could come over and meet his dad.
 Is this question number--
 No, we're still asking, predict what would happen if King Aegeus and Enkidu hadn't died.
 If the king hadn't died, I think the son would have come back and they just would have lived happily ever after, and there would have been no like--

not formed, you know what I'm talking about? Because King Aegeus--
 No, but he  would have died sometime, and then Theseus would have taken over.
 Yeah, that's true.
 Can you go, dig a little deeper with what you said about the democracy? What did you mean by that?
 Oh, just like  right when King Aegeus died, Theseus came over and said, "We're going to have a democracy "instead of me ruling over all of you." So like, we don't know if that would have happened, or because if he just would have stayed alive, he could have like changed Theseus' mind and made him think a democracy was a bad idea.
 Mm-hmm.
 Yeah. He would've wanted him to be-- he would have that as king. He would've been more like his dad.
 Yeah, that's true.
 But if Enkidu didn't die, then Gilgamesh would probably like be happy, and then like, conquer a bunch of other stuff, and like they would probably like die together.
 She could have sent him to Athens to claim him as his--

 Oh, okay, nevermind.
 You're allowed to go on.
 All right.
 No, if Enkidu didn't die, though, I just think that Gilgamesh wouldn't have really known-- like you know how they said he was really arrogant in the beginning? I think he still was kind of arrogant, until Enkidu died, so he--
 He would have stayed like that.
 Yeah, he would have stayed that way.
 Mm-hmm. Because he went through like a stage of depression, so.
 Yeah.
 Do you think that each one reached humility at the end, or no? Do you think that Gilgamesh, you said, was still arrogant, even at the end?
 No.
 Oh, he wasn't?
 Not after Enkidu died, but once he died, it stopped of course, but--
 I think Gilgamesh was arrogant until he found out that he wasn't going to be immortal.
 Well yeah, that, too. Because then he had to like live his life to the fullest because he couldn't live forever. He couldn't do whatever he wanted.
 Who's your favorite character between each story? Out of the stories?
 Theseus.
 Yeah, I like Theseus, too.
 We all like Theseus.
 Yeah.
 It also said that Theseus was grieving.
 Was grieving her loss, or his father's loss?
 It was both.
 Debate which character  had more impact on their society.
 Can you say that one more time?
 Debate which character  had more impact on their society.
 Oh, she has the "debate" word in there. Okay, let's hear it.
 I'd say Gilgamesh--
 I would say--
 ...he wants to be king.
 Let's let him finish his reason. What's your reason? You think who?
 I think Gilgamesh. Actually, I think Theseus would, because he changed the kind of structure of government, and made it democratic. That's it.
 Yeah, I would agree with you there in the way that he kind of completely changed the government structure where he lived, while kind of Gilgamesh would probably be one of those leaders that is better forgotten than remembered, and memory lived on is not probably a theme in that story. While Theseus kind of left his ways and his story behind. That people remembered on high, rather than as like a low point of their society.
 Weren't you going to say something?
 Oh, I was?
 I thought you were.
 I think Theseus was, had an impact.
 And the reason for that?
 Because he like survived more than Gilgamesh did, and he helped people out of the maze, with Adrian's help, right? Yeah. Predict what would happen if the King and Enkidu didn't die.
 Well--
 I don't think  Athens would be democratic. I don't think the king would have done it.
 Yeah, he probably would have been poisoned.
 Why is that?
 Gilgamesh--
 I don't know, because--
 Gilgamesh probably wouldn't have been searching for immortality.
 Yeah, he wouldn't have gone on that Journey.
 Yeah.
 Okay, well my question is: how would you have handled some of the tough situations that each of the characters had to go through?
 Wait, what was the question?
 How would you have handled the situations?
 Wouldn't have done any of them?
 No, I get scared  really easily, and stressed, so that would not be good.
  the Labyrinth thing.
 Sorry, I didn't hear what you said.
 I wouldn't go to  the Labyrinth thing.
 Why is that?
 It kind of sounds like a bad idea.
 I might go and  just not defeat the beast, and in the first place, I probably would have traveled by water, and not just said, "I'm too good for that, it's too easy." Because, I--
 Bandits have sharp swords.
 Yeah.
 Okay, what's yours?
 Choose your favorite character and explain why. From, because you like Gilgamesh or Theseus.
 Okay. Oh, not like our favorite character, just in the story?
 Yeah. Well either way, it doesn't really matter.
 Well because my  favorite character from Gilgamesh was Enkidu? Is that how you say it? Because I think he like really changed Gilgamesh for the better. And helped him and humbled him.
 Do you agree with that?
 Yeah, I agree with that, because I feel like he was kind of-- like Gilgamesh was so awful, and like Enkidu came in and just changed all that. Plus, I thought that it was kind of cool, his journey from like a savage to the civilized guy. Yeah.
 I don't think that Enkidu really meant to change Gilgamesh, though, I think that it was just the circumstances surrounding his death that made that happen.
 Enkidu's mom kind of made that happen, too, didn't he?
 Did you feel like Enkidu was just kind of created, that he, I mean we were saying that we like him, but did he seem real to you, or was he just something created?
 See, when I read it, the entire time, he just kind of seemed like this robot that the gods had created to fix Gilgamesh, so he didn't really have that much of a personality to me, so that's my opinion, I don't know.
 Yeah, he seemed  like his pretty much sole purpose of existence was to balance out Gilgamesh.
 And he did.
 Yeah, he did.
 My favorite character  from these stories was Ariadne.
 Oh.
 Well, because I  didn't feel sorry for her, because she helped Theseus, and like without her, he would have been trapped in the Labyrinth. But then to repay her, he just ditched her on an island, and just left her, so that wasn't very nice. So I feel sorry for her, that's why.
 Okay, mine is: how would you have dealt with these situations in 
 Can you repeat it one more time?
 How would you have  handled these situa-- 
 I wouldn't run away from the-- 
 I would not have gone  on this journey. I probably just would have stayed home, not gonna lie.
 Do you feel like, that people, to be great, have to go out in the world and seek these amazing achievements, that that's what greatness is?
 Not necessarily.
 I don't think you necessarily have to seek them. It all really depends on what your definition of greatness is.
 I feel like to get that like glory and all that, I mean, I think you can do that, if you have enough impact where you are, you don't need to go off on a journey.
 What do you think, Dinesh?
 I don't know, I feel like, if we're going by the definitons as you would see them within these stories, that obviously you don't have to, I don't think you have to seek greatness, necessarily, I don't think you have to seek it to find it, but I think that you do have to go off, if you're just going to stay where you are, you're not really going to be able to achieve it.
 So if you just sit on your front porch and watch your life go by, that's not greatness. That can't constitute--
