What were you saying, Joe?
I said young people definitely benefit our society overall more than old people in the country.
Why?
Just because they can--
Progress.
Contribute more. Yeah. Like they can work and they can help our industry grow and provide opportunities for more people.
Yeah, they're a lot more active compared to old people more, who just is gonna basically sit at home.
I mean if we look at like the current political situation in countries that are rebelling, the rebellion is completely composed of the youth.
Yeah.
If we look at the political situation in America, like Obama's election, was pretty much the 18 to 21 year-old vote. It's just like clearly, they're like better at affecting social change.
In this time period that we're discussing, why would you want the youth to come?
Well because this is like the start of all social change in the union, and I want young people to bring a youthful energy, and determination, and some sort of hope about the country that they're moving to, and that all, my union in here.
[Matt] They're gonna progress, they're gonna like technology, and they're gonna invent stuff.
So you're onboard with the--
I'm just saying we still need more money. They're going to be working and they're going to be taking money out of our economy because they're gonna want to pledge. How much are they gonna spend? Like we need old people to spend a lot, like rich people to spend.
[Girl in brown] But we need workers.
Yeah, no, so it's like--
We need workers, old people cannot work.
[Matt] We need a combination. If only get young people--
If we look at this list of people that we can bring into the country that we were supposed to look at to begin with, the old people on this list aren't that rich.
Yeah, but there's
[Girl in brown] The bottom line is
Gonna be more than just the old people there. the old people other countries--
But right now we're focusing on that.
they're going to be moving and they're rich, who would move here? Why would they move to the "Land of Opportunity," if they don't need opportunities? I didn't mean to say that! (group laughs)
That's honesty! Okay.
Yeah but, I mean, I see that.
It seems like the majority, did the majority rule on that? Because I guess, who was against having younger people come in? I know Matt was. Was Matt the only one who wanted older people to come in? Ok, and you were--
[Girl in brown] Also--
[Matt] I'm a loner.
You just went with the consensus?
Yeah.
Okay, good. - [Girl in brown] Another point, another point! Also, old people coming from another country just to spend the rest of their life, aren't necessarily going to be all that interested in America
Okay.
as a country.
And wait, and also--
They're not going to vote, they're not going to, you know, try to participate in the country itself so they're just here to die in comfort? (girl laughs)
Okay, go ahead Darvel.
On the way, it's already tough enough to come across the sea to get to the United States, because so many people died on the way getting there, so they might die on the way getting there.
So don't even consider them to begin with?
Right.
Or if they're sick, they can't come into the country, anyway. Like, we're not going to let people who have cholera into our country, because then it'll start spreading here, so ...
You said "colema" or "column?"
[Matt] Isn't that more in--
Cholera.
[Matt] That's like--
Okay, I was like, what?
What else did you guys have on your cards? What about religion? Does religion matter?
[Matt] No.
I don't think it did.
No, no.
That's one thing we, I think we all could agree on.
Yeah.
Oh, everybody--
What about the nativists?
What about the nativists? Darvel, you were okay with the religious freedom happening in this group? Well, I mean, it's kind of like on the edge of the--
He's conformed.
But I (inaudible) because most of the time, it's Christianity in the United States, so...
Also, majority rule.
Yeah, majority rules.
USA! USA! (teacher laughs)
Okay, so who did you guys decide to, wait, was that the end of your criteria, or?
No, we had-- - [Girl in brown] There's still reasons for coming, race, and knowledge of English, previous jobs, and--
Oh, what'd you guys say for English? What'd you guys say?
They have to know English.
Yeah, we said they had to know.
Basic English, at least.
At least a little bit. They have to know some of it.
Or--
Enough to, you know, find out where the bathroom is.
Really?
Or enough to like communicate--
Or have the ability to learn it.
With other people who may not know English that well.
And Boss, you were okay?
I mean I feel like I'm one of the only ones who disagreed with that, because like being a boss, like I have connections like in every part of my city, and every community, and communities are often like separated by race, so--
By race and?
[Teacher] And language.
Mm-hmm.
So, maybe different communities wouldn't have trouble communicating if they only knew one language.
Mm-hmm.
But being a boss, with my connections, I could definitely like, I could make it so that they could communicate, and I can get them what they need, help them out.
Okay.
I don't think now English is a necessity.
Well you wouldn't--
I think it's pretty, I mean how are people supposed to communicate? And it's just going to make life miserable for the people who are trying to make it. Because I mean, overall the majority speaks English.
But we do have immigrants in this country right now that speak different languages, so they could just--
They're getting by, though.
Right, right.
I don't know if (inaudible)
You should know them, working in factories, you should know a lot of these people.
Yeah, but-- - [Girl in brown] You might even know someone--
When I think of like different languages, I think of like the Tower of Bavel, or Babel, it's like in the Bible story, where like everybody spoke different languages, and then the tower collapsed. So like, if everybody speaks different languages, we can't get work done productively, because we don't know what each other want. Like if we say, "Yo, go make this type," I don't know, just, "Do this job," and then they do something else, you need communication.
Darvel, what do you think about the language piece?
Well, I think that speaking English is basically, it's a necessity. I mean, obviously, you would want workers to come in, because he just wants money. He doesn't really think communication is that important, but as a nativist, I believe that it is.
Why? What will happen if we let a lot of people come into the country with different languages, maybe be different races, different ethnicities? What will happen to the country if we let those people in?
I mean, that could create like conflict between the work, because like Matt said, they really wouldn't know what to do while they're working. Also, that could change the patriotism of the country, as well.
But will they know why they're working?
Not really.
So people who don't speak English don't know why they're doing a specific job?
Well, probably, yeah. I mean, they know that they're doing a job to get money.
Right, so does English really matter? I'm just asking.
I mean, they're not gonna really--
X, you wouldn't care if they spoke English, because if they didn't speak English, it might make it easier to exploit them.
I somewhat care. Because they have to collaborate with the people they're working with to get the job done.
The way I see it is, they can come into the country with a, you know, as long as they have the mindset of, "I should probably learn English to succeed in this country," then I think it's a good idea. Because if you're going to be immersed in a language, you're going to be able to learn it eventually, so I mean as long as they try to learn English, or try to know basic English, I think they should (inaudible)
I mean, I think I agree to Darvel. Like if I was a nativist, I'm not saying I am, but if I was a nativist, I wouldn't want hoards of people who don't speak English coming, because I mean it's like, America's pure, we've got everybody speaks English, like we don't want--
But does everybody really speak English right now?
Not now, I'm saying--
No, not right now in 2011, but in our age that we're discussing--
[Matt] If I was a nativist in my--
Even then, right?
In my like Ideal world, you would want everybody to like speak English.
Okay.
The whole world should speak English!
Oh, goodness! Yeah, that's what a nativist would say.
I went with the English speakers, because like to properly rebel and have a voice, communication is vital, and I think that people who aren't speaking English won't be interested in what I have to say, can't even understand what I'm saying, so--
Okay, well you guys decide, and talk about who you guys are letting into the country specifically, okay?
Yeah.
All right, thanks guys.
Oh, we already did.
[Boy in green] Education's not really that important to me, though.
I think it's really important.
Dude, it's saying that a lot of these people going into this country aren't educated to begin with.
Well, education like-- - [Girl in blue] You would want educated people.
As a non-union worker, like I don't care about education. I just want to keep my job, and I want like union workers to get out of the country.
And as a union worker, I want educated immigrants, because then they would stand up for themselves, and like change factory conditions.
Me, being a tycoon, I just want people to work for me. I mean, they can come to this country, they can live the American way, I'll supply them with a job--
What's the American way?
American way is to--
Well but you're not giving them any money.
Wait, wait, wait, what's the American way?
[Boy in green] 2.5 kids--
We are, actually.
2.5 kids, white picket fence.
[Boy in green] Dog!
Well that's the American, is that the American way now or then? We're talking about then.
[Girl in blue] Labrador!
Basically, the American way is
I want them to be doing better than the country they were previously in.
Okay.
That's my concern.
Well, but they came here to like succeed, and you're giving them like two cents an hour.
I mean, for me with education though, it's not that big of a deal, because then again, if they're coming to America, they're going to have to learn our customs and our way, and with them being uneducated, that's easier for us to mold them into society, and opposed to like we can mold their thoughts into like correct candidates to vote for, and stuff like that!
But this is supposed to be like a free country, and they came over here because we like grant that, and we're just like manipulating them.
Yeah, but like basically, the only people I want in the country are like people that are going to give me jobs. Like people who are kind of like--
Who are those people?
Kind of like sketchy people, kind of, because like--
You want sketchy people to come into your country?
Well, sketchy people are about to give me jobs, because like sketchy people are about to like--
What do you mean by sketchy? What does sketchy mean?
When you're saying sketchy, do you mean poor, or like--
Nah, I mean like people that are like rich and stuff, and they'll like have a business and whatever, but like--
They're corrupt a little?
Yeah, they're a little corrupt, so they won't like hire union workers, and they'll keep their people ununionized so I can come in and take the work, make that cash. Know what I'm saying?
Oh, okay. So you want it that people will have money when they come into the country, but not be on the side of unions--
Exactly.
So that they will--
They'll give me jobs.
They will, okay, they'll hire non-union workers.
They're not people that are going to be entering the workforce, they're people that are going to be like already kind of upper, you know what I mean?
Okay, so you want people with money coming into the country?
Yeah, exactly.
Okay. Did you guys decide on a criteria already--
Yup.
Or are you discussing a criteria?
We have a criteria.
This is our criteria, pretty much.
Okay, what's your criteria?
We said non-educated, which some of us don't agree with.
Who didn't agree with it?
I don't agree with that.
[Teacher] Why?
Because--
[Girl in blue] I did not agree with it.
America is the land of education. Everybody needs an education. You can't come here--
Well, but at this time, remember education is not like going to school. It's more of knowing a skill or a trade.
It's like street smarts, almost.
Well, if they don't know anything, then they can work.
[Girl in blue] Yeah.
Okay.
And we decided on that--
Do people really need to know a lot, though, to work in these factories?
No, but like--
[Boy in blue] No, my business is to teach them how to use these machines.
[Girl in blue] We don't want them to be taken advantage of.
I mean, but at the same time, I don't really see the importance of education if they don't come with like money or some type of, like I don't know, some type of prior knowledge with like succeeding in America. Because you may know, you know how to read 100 books, but that doesn't help you like start a business or something like that.
Yeah.
Yeah, but not like that kind of education. Like, education enough where they know like that two cents an hour is not okay. Like so they can stand up for themselves, and like be able to like negotiate with you.
Why is that not okay? I mean, everyone has to get paid. Everyone gets paid that same amount.
Yeah, but they're living in like cramped shacks and like poor conditions.
I mean, that's in your opinion. A house is a house.
Yeah, and then look at where they're coming from. They're coming from religious persecution, they're coming from these governments that are collapsing, these war-stricken countries--
Exactly, and the government--
I think it's better to work in a factory, earn some wage--
Yeah, but how much are you earning compared to them?
Eat or have necessities in life.
I mean, but there's also government support, too. That's where I come in. I set them up with a place to stay, stuff like that, you know. That's what government's here for is support of people that come in here. So it's best when they're not educated, it's best when they don't have money, because that makes it easier for them to get help, and that's what we're here to do is to help people.
But then they're relying on you and they don't know what to do with themselves, like when you--
They're relying on him, but then he lets them rely on themselves, so they come in, rely on him, and then he kind of sends them, like--
How?
Helps them out.
How does he keep people from relying on him?
Because then, all right, so I can help them decide for who to vote for in some type of election that can help them with their lives. Like if there's a politician voting for labor laws, I can help them. If I'm with that politician, I can, "Yo, this is the guy you want to vote for," "This is the guy that will help you."
That's like brainwashing, though, they like have a right to think for themselves.
Honey, this is America.
Exactly.
Exactly! Exactly!
So you're saying that nobody should campaign, ever? You're saying campaigning is brainwashing?
No, you could campaign, but you don't--
Exactly, he's just campaigning!
Can I just say something?
No, but he's like getting them all to agree with him.
Okay, if you think about it this way, you can really have people from all spectrums of money-wise, like from all kinds of economic backgrounds. You can have the more rich people come in, sorry, the education backgrounds. The more educated people are going to come in. No matter what, they're going to help our country more than hurt it. Then for me, I can supply the people who have gotten a lesser education, and I can give them a job, I can start them off in life, and maybe they can go to the library and learn themselves.
Why don't you better their working conditions, then, if you like are "helping" them?
Because I mean, still, this is much better.
No, because they like die in those factories.
It's better than being killed by their previous governments.
[Teacher] Wait, have we decided--
No, it's not! It's not the same thing.
Have you guys already decided on this piece already?
Yeah, we have like our set laws, we just have disagreements about that.
You guys have disagreements? So you guys were able to a consensus on them?
Yeah, well we kind of voted on it. We decided that they have to be non-educated, come with some sort of money. Their religion and race doesn't matter. Come with a family--
