Guys ready?
[Students] Yes.
Okay number one, start, give your idea. Read the word, give your idea of the definition.
Okay what's your word? "Soldier," okay and okay you're gonna give your idea? What's your idea of soldier?
I think tax is like when you buy something like, the extra, yeah.
One person at a time, it goes in order, so what's your idea?
Like a government, so
Okay you need help. Have you ever seen a soldier before?
Taxes for me are...
Where?
Money or something, I don't know.
And what does a soldier do, do you know? Okay, he fights for freedom, very good. So it's someone who fights for freedom, that's your definition. What's your definition? (children discussing) Very good, you guys keep going, you're doing great. Let me see how this group is doing over here. Where are you guys at? Have you already given your definition?
Yes.
Okay did you already give yours? Did you already give yours? Did you give yours yet? What do you think it is? What's the word?
Patriot.
Very good, patriot, and did you listen to their ideas?
Yeah.
Okay and you need thinking time? Okay. And remember, you can build on their ideas too. Louder, a little bit louder.
I think it means to... I think it's
You've heard it in a song, that word?
Yeah.
Yeah? So someone was a patriot in a song? What did it mean, in the song, if they were a patriot? How did they feel?
They feel sad?
Sometimes sad, you can feel sad if you're a patriot. On 9/11, when the planes crashed through the buildings, people were sad because they were patriots, they loved their country, right? And they were sad to see that. Can you be happy if you're a patriot too?
Yeah.
When would you be happy if you were a patriot? You're a patriot for the United States, right? Or even for the country your family originally came from. How do you feel about that country if you're a patriot?
Happy.
Happy, and do you not like them or do you love them, that country?
I love them.
You love them, okay, so a patriot is someone that what?
You could be more excited or happy?
Okay and how do you feel in your heart about the country? Do you dislike it or do you like it a lot?
I like it a lot.
Okay, alright. And I didn't hear your ideas but can you guys get together and agree, or do you want to look it up first? Should we look it up, to make sure we have the right idea? Okay everyone let's get into our books and let me make sure you have your papers too. There are your papers too, goodness Miss Bryant got ahead of herself. Just in case you forget the direction, the page is 493 to check, go all the way to your glossary page 493 to check. (students discussing) Let me see what you guys have, let's see. Okay and where does that money go to, do you guys know?
The government.
Oh, did you look it up to make sure that it was perfect, your definition? Okay let's look it up real quick and make sure because it looks pretty good but let's just make sure. That's my fault because I got busy with table one and didn't give you this paper so on page 493 there you go, 493 it starts but then you have to go in ABC order, right? And let's look it up and make sure you have the right definition. You guys are looking up tax, that's right.
A "T."
"T, T, T," tax, good, like the way you're using your resource, 'cause that was one of the things we said we're gonna do, is use our resource. (students discussing) Okay, what did you get? Do you know where to read it? (child reading) Good, I like the way that you worked together and helped, so, Les, what did you have?
[Teacher and students] Taxes for new money
To where, where does that money go?
[Students] The government.
Okay so let's add that. Who started this?
Her.
Me.
Okay so you wanna add that? You guys all agree?
[Students] Yeah.
You feel good? 'Cause it's not just any money for anybody, it's money to the?
[Students] Government.
Okay, so let's add that, go ahead. Good, I like the way you used your resource and checked it. (students discussing)
A patriot is a person who loves and supports
their country.
And that's kinda what you guys said anyway right, you said they love, is that what you guys said 'cause I wasn't here earlier, did you say stuff like that? Oh great. Are all of you patriots? Do you love your country?
Loves and supports their country. (shuffling papers)
Okay, now what happens? It goes to person
Number two.
Number two, you get to read it and they're gonna repeat the question, right? Okay there you go and here's the directions just in case you forget.
What is it like? Describe it.
Okay, let's repeat.
[Teacher and students] What is it like? Describe it.
You guys, did you repeat? Let's repeat.
[Teacher and students] What is it like? Describe it.
Okay so before we write, you get to start, so what is it like? Can you describe a patriot?
[Boy] Yes.
Okay what is it like?
[Boy] It's like
Or who is he like, 'cause they're a person, right?
[Boy] Is like someone who will respect their country.
Who's that? Can you think of a person? Oh I'm sorry honey. Can you think of a person? Who's an example? Let's see, describe it, so when you think a patriot, okay they support their country, what else?
[Boy] Respect the government.
Very good, those are good words, so you could put that there, but we're not gonna write yet, right? Because we're gonna give everyone a chance. What would you say? What do you think of when you think of patriot and you would describe it if you had to describe it to someone.
Patriot is soldier.
That's a great example. What about you?
Someone respect every city everywhere and respect to everybody to not be...
Very nice.
Can it be also honoring?
I like that vocabulary word, honor, how do you guys feel about honoring? What do you say about respecting? Okay, alright, you get to write first. You write one then it'll go around and each of you can write one in a box, okay, every one of you write something in the box. If you need help, ask your table for help, right? Okay, good. How's it goin'? (students discussing)
If something costs $7.99, it's plus, like, tax.
Plus like, a dollar.
Yeah, a dollar.
Taxes come in like, a dollar or two dollars.
Just put taxes like, extra money.
Great, okay now you. Alright so we said it protects the country, fights, what did you say when you gave ideas?
Fights for his, risks his life for others.
What do you guys think, risks his life for others? Should we include that?
[Students] Yeah.
Yeah? Okay, that's good. Good, okay and then you're gonna write one too, right? (students discussing)
[Teacher] What else makes that "kuh" sound, a "C" and what else?
"K."
You guys agree? Okay let's put it down, a "K." Risks. I like the way you're helping each other, that's great. Alright. Very nice. Okay and you get to put an idea down too, we wanna make sure everyone gets a chance. So put your idea down, you can put it in any of the boxes because there's room, here, here, or here. No that's fine because we're all gonna keep going, yep, so I want you to put your idea that you said earlier here, here, or here for describing the soldier. Do you remember what you said? What'd you say? (boy speaking) Very good, so put that down. (students discussing)
Tax is more money for the government.
You can just look in the book.
Just put tax is extra money for the government.
We already have that.
Oh I know, tax is extra money for the government. Tax is, I-S for extra money for the government. (students spelling aloud)
Okay so has everyone given an example? Okay so whose turn was it to write, your turn? So you write first and make sure everyone gets to write one in.
Tax is extra money for government. Money, money, money. M-O-N-E-
Yes, did you guys give your examples first?
Yeah.
Before you wrote? Okay good. Do your parents pay taxes?
[Students] Yes.
They do. Everyone pays taxes, that could be an example. I have a question. Do your parents pay taxes? Everyone pays taxes, don't they? Do we have to pay taxes when we get gasoline?
Yes.
Yes, do we have to pay taxes when we buy a video game?
Yeah.
Everything.
Yes, everything except for food. Food they don't tax, isn't that nice of them? (laughter) Okay and what does the tax go to support?
The government?
The government and the schools, right? And the firemen, the policemen, good, okay so now you have some more. Great conversation, great conversation. (students discussing)
Was Thomas Jefferson a patriot?
Martin Luther King.
Martin Luther King was a patriot, good. Who else was a patriot?
Abraham LIncoln?
Yes, okay let's take turns though, who's turn is it now? Who's a patriot? Someone who loves their country. (students discussing) Are you a patriot? Could you say "I am a patriot?"
I'm a patriot.
Very good, there's an example. Can you think of someone who's a patriot?
A soldier.
A soldier. Why's a soldier a patriot? Why do you think they love their country so much? What are they willing to risk?
Their heart?
Their heart and their what? They could, what could happen if they got shot?
They die.
Yeah, they're risking their lives, so they really love their country, they're really patriots aren't they? Very good, so you ready to write? Who's turn is it? No that's okay, so whoever's next, so if it's your turn you go. Oh okay, so it's your turn so you get to write an example of a patriot. Try to write in a complete sentence, I bet you can. (students discussing)
You just draw pictures. (students discussing)
