Our goal is to find the answers to your questions so we can fill this column, what I learned, in the KWL chart. Okay? So that's our goal. Our goal is to find the answers to draw a conclusion to our month long experiment. Before we do that, why don't we take another measurement. I would like you to measure your plant, if you have any. And I would like you to count the number of leaves on your plant, on one of them. Go ahead. Scientists take your ruler. Take your ruler and measure. I like the way some of you are holding your rulers. It's great that you put the lower number down when you measure. Great! If it helps you can pick up your plant. Okay. After you have your measurement and the number of leaves, make sure you count the numbers, the leaves too, you may put your plant down. After you put your plant down I know you are ready to continue. Could you touch your head with your empty hands? Good job, John. Touch your head with your empty hands. Wonderful, I see that you're ready, right Katie? Put your hands down. I also took pictures of your experiment. Your pictures will serve as data. That means the information you collected. This group picture were from the people who conducted the experiment to see if seeds would grow with soil, water, and sunlight.
[Class] Sunlight.
We have air all around us so we all have air. I would like you to use good listening ears. Day one. Day 11. That's what it looked like. Day 18, day 24, and day 32. We even have a ruler here, a primary ruler that's easy for kindergartners to use. Now looking at the data and your pictures. What do you think the conclusion is if you did this experiment? If you planted the seeds, you planted your seeds with soil, water and sunlight could you please raise your hand? Good, we have some eager participants. Could you please come up here with your experiment and a ruler and explain to us?
My experiment was if plants will grow with sun, soil, and water and I put them near the windowsill.
Why did you put your cup near the windowsill?
To get some sunlight.
So your seeds received sunlight. Did you water your seeds?
Yes I did.
Okay. And you did put soil?
Yes, in the cup.
Okay. What do you think your conclusion is?
If plants will grow in sun, soil and water.
And what is your answer?
Um.
Did your seeds grow?
Yes.
Did you take a measurement?
Yeah.
May we see how tall they are? How tall are they?
One inch.
Did you see how Kieran measured his plants? He has the end with the lower number touching the base of the plant. That's good scientist! Now how many leaves do you have on some of them?
Four leaves.
And how many did you have last week?
Two.
Two. So what do you think is happening?
They're growing.
They're growing because you have more?
Leaves.
Wonderful! Great job scientist! And now let's look at the next experiment boys and girls. This one is planting seeds without water. Did seeds or plants grow without water? I would like you to look at the data. This is your data just in case you don't remember. Sometimes we don't remember what we did, but pictures help us. Day one, day 11, day 18, day 24, day 32. Hmmm. I wonder what the conclusion is? Oh, John you want to come up and share? Great! Take your experiment and your ruler. And I really love the way Thalia listened.
My experiment was if plants will grow without water. And I put sun, soil. I gave it sun, and I put soil and I never gave it water.
How did you give it sunlight?
I put it by the windowsill.
Okay, so what is your conclusion?
My conclusion is plants will grow without water.
Will grow or won't grow?
Won't grow.
Very good! Thank you.
Thank you very much young scientist. Great job! And let's look at the next experiment. Did seeds grow without soil? Here's day one. Again, scientists look at the smart board. Day 11, day 18, and day 32. Now, who did this experiment? We would like you, come on up Rachel. Bring up your experiment and tell us all about it.
I did an experiment if seeds will grow without soil. And I put seeds, water in it, and I put it by the window. And I gave it sun. And they didn't grow.
What did you not use?
Soil.
You did not use soil. And where are your seeds?
By the window.
They're in your cup right now.
In my cup.
Uh huh.
Would you mind showing the class what you have there? Tilt it down. Boys and girls take a peek. This is what Rachel's seeds...
I can't see.
Okay. So now, what is your conclusion, Rachel?
Seeds won't grow without soil.
Very good. Thank you scientist. We have nothing to measure in Rachel's cup. And the last one. Oh, boys and girls this is a very interesting one. I really would like you to look up here. Look at the data first. Did seeds or plants grow without sunlight? A lot of your cups were by the window so that they received sunlight. But look at this one. Day one. Do you have anything?
[Voiceover] No.
No. Day 11.
[Voiceover] No.
Day 18, look at the number. Look at the numbers on the ruler. Day 24, I want you to look at your data. And day 32. Well, that's some interesting experiment. I know some of you did this one. Quite a number of children. If you did that experiment and you would like to come up and talk nicely and loudly. Juliana would you please come up with your plant and your ruler if you would like? Come on up. Okay, John you're going to show Juliana what a good listener you are, okay? Go ahead buddy.
I planted seeds without sun. And I put them in the closet.
Did you cover your seeds with soil?
Yes.
So your seeds have soil.
Soil.
You watered them?
Watered them.
Every week you watered them? And?
And no sun.
And you did not give them any sunlight because you put them in--
The closet.
In the closet and the closet has no?
Sun.
Has no sunlight. It has no windows. Right, John? Now Juliana, tell the class if you ever had any sprouts.
I did have sprouts.
And what do you think happened?
They died.
How tall were your sprouts at one point.
One inch.
One inch and why do you think they died?
Because they had no sun.
And do you think the sun is important for plants to grow? So what is your conclusion?
No, seeds won't grow without sun.
Very good. Good job scientist. You may go back. Now boys and girls, I'm going to ask you to think about your experiment. Think about what your question was. What you wanted to find out. And the steps you took to do your experiment. And you are going to turn to your partner and ask your partner what they wanted to find out. You may say, "What was your question?" Or, "What do you want to find out?" And here's a big question mark. And after your partner answers then you may ask, "What did you do?" "What steps did you take?" And at the end we will like you to ask your partner, "What is your answer?" How did you know that's the answer? They have to tell you their evidence, what they used to tell you the answer. Okay, now turn to your partner and talk to each other. Remember how we work as partners. [Class] What did you find out? [Class] What was your question?
My question was... (students talking over each other)
[Teacher] Take turns. (students talking over each other) Gabby, take turns (students talking over each other) Boys and girls, let's take 30 more seconds. If you need to use your plants as your evidence feel free. (students talking over each other) Okay, boys and girls turn around. Please put your hands on your lap so I can see your empty hands. Alright. Let's look at the answers again. Our whole experiment, and let's look at the questions. Will seeds grow without water? What do you think?
[Class] No.
If you don't think seeds will grow without water shake your head. Great. Cameron will seeds grow without water?
No.
No, good. Okay, next question. Will seeds grow without sunlight?
[Class] No.
Let me see you touch your ears if you don't think seeds will grow without sunlight. Okay, let's see. Will they Cameron?
No.
Touch your ears so I know you understand. Next one, will seeds grow without soil? Yes or no? [Class] Yes. No.
Will seeds grow without soil?
[Class] NO!
No. Touch the ground, touch the rug. Okay, great. The last question, Katie, is will seeds grow with water, sun and soil?
[Class] Yes.
Good. Then make some rain drops. Make the sun and form a cup to hold your soil.
