FL Yeah... So here's like... you can see that the professional players who  can pay that money. They're really rich, so there's so much sponsors  that they pay for their helmets. But like in... high school football what they want is long pass (unintelligible) cheaper material So they don't  care much about The health about the guys,  they want to go just... Their problem is  the money of the helmets. How much cost of helmet is... like helmets with  Kevlar or that stuff. like they use in  the military equipment. (unintelligible) So how can we combine your thoughts and your thoughts so that we can  save these thoughts? So what kind of  ideas you guys have? How could you design a helmet so it's not this big or really neat and super expensive? The type of padding we use So what ideas  do you guys have? So what kind of...  So you play football... What kind of padding right  now is inside of the helmet? I mean they're not soft. It's like it's air glove. It's almost like a hard  balloon stuck to your head. So it's just one on the side  and the whole top is full. and one on the other side  and one in the back. But that's it. I mean, you could  actually feel the hit. But it... you just  don't get a concussion, unless you're heavy. So have  you ever been hit? Have you ever had  a helmet to helmet contact? So where did you get hit? My head Almost like right here. On top of your head.
ight, but there's padding there. Oh, but you said  you could still feel it. I mean, I could feel it for like  a quick couple of seconds or so. Then it just goes away. It's because of  the padding, I guess. It's... umm... It's like (unintelligible) So is there any  way that you would change the design of the  helmet that you have now? Um...more cushion. Okay. So that's  kind of going back to what Angel was talking about. So how can  we change the design to make it more cushiony, but... Because if you have  something that's too cushiony, right, is that going  to decrease the time? or increase the time  and decrease the force? if it's really cushiony? Oh, that's really cushiony? 
eah Oh, you mean  like it will just go... Yeah.
o. Right. So you're saying  you want it more cushiony, you're saying you want it cheaper,  you're saying you want it smaller. I think like what Matt's kind of saying is more  for comfort than for safety. -Right. Right. So why... So can you relate sort of to what  Angel's saying and why if it is more cushiony it would be more dangerous. Umm, with the head rattling? Like if it hits on this side,  it's quicker to hit the other side. Is that what you mean? what? So how...? So think about how  the padding is right now. How it's stiff compared to something  that kind of gave. So think about  relating this back to force times the change in time. You can ask... If it's built too soft, it's  going to hit you with a stronger force... So what could  happen to the time? It's going to be slower, it's going to be faster. It's going to be faster, so what's  going to happen to the force? The force is going to increase...  So it's going to hurt even more and it will  be more dangerous. So what you need is like a stable material that not too soft, but at the same time So besides Kevlar, which you brought up which is I was thinking like (unintelligible) like for example  when you are hit and you're hit you want that like bulletproof (unintelligible) that the force spreads in  all the space of the body of the helmet. So is you are hit here, all the force is not concentrated in this place,  but is moving over all the helmet. So it displaces the  force so it's not on one area. So I was like  thinking like maybe like this big, the helmet then in the middle like like a wave like when it hits,  it spreads to all the helmet. So that's you versus less (unintelligible) you spread all the  force on your head so you have like less (unintelligible) Something that will  transfer the motion Yeah. I like this idea. But what I was thinking is that we could put layers so instead of hitting the helmet right away you hit something cushiony first so have something  cushiony on the outside so that it takes time  for you to hit the helmet. And once you hit the  helmet, the small cushiony so that it takes  time for that to hit the other hard part which would then hit cushion again  and then hit you. So kind of  like an atmosphere. Yeah, it will have  like little layers It will probably have to make  the helmet a little bit like bigger. But not like...  Don't make it like huge, but have layers on there. and then incorporate his idea  when you're making waves. So something  like that first layer could help  dissipate the force. So we have cushiony  against cushiony like boxers use. And then they have the  hard part on the bottom when they do little wrapping. So we have the cushiony part first. So it's going to take time and  I think that's what they use. They put cushion on there, so that it takes time for you  to actually feel the force. So that the force will be less. And if you have  cushion with cushion It's because you  are increasing the time. Yeah, because if you have two  helmets that are hitting each other, that are cushion and cushion, it will take longer for  them to hit each other. And then the force  will be decreased. My question for Matt is-  How big is the helmet? Oh! The padding? It's like thick.  It's kind of thick. That's just the padding  and then you have the helmet, which is like that  much more. -Yeah. It's like that thick. How heavy is the helmet? Like when you're wearing it,  does it feeling like it's weighing you down? Yeah, it takes time to get used to it.  And that day, you're neck will hurt. That's how heavy it is. Another version of like  what we are trying to do. I think it'd also be cool. Maybe like helmet  were like it was fitted to like the head and then it'd have like inbetween kind of like a net structure. which is a part of uh... kind of like what he had but something that is hung. I want to kind of  imagine it like the bridges. How they have like a whole bunch of  little columns But just a whole bunch that is attached to the  outside of the helmet. I will draw it, and I'll show you guys. You had your hand up, do you want  to share while he...? Yeah I was wondering, since  we're talking about the injuries and can you guys give an example of the  type of brain damage that you can get? Just like an actual name. Like I heard concussion. Other injuries, other names. Can you tell... What a concussion is? What is a concussion? Ask the group. Well, a concussion is when... It's when you... your brain between your  actual brain and your skull There is a liquid,  like Spinal fluid, is it? and that's supposed  to cushion your brain from touching the, or hitting, your skull. But a concussion is when it's  hitting and it's going back and forth. I mean gradually it will go back to normal but... That's my understanding  of concussion. And you would have lost like feeling for like one or two seconds on the biggest  areas of the impact So what part do you think  is the most dangerous part to hit of your brain,  on your brain? The sides. What do the sides control? Well, it wasn't like that. I thinking like in  the structure of the... of the skull. So the sides, where  the nerves enter, like Your optic nerves?-Yeah. So I think that's like less pain. It's like a really big hit here   can kill a man. So I think that hit is worst. You're saying the skull  is thinnest right there? -Yeah. It's not as thick  as the other parts. It's thickest, like right here... What does your  frontal lobe control? So that's what  kind of separates us from other species is that we have the most  developed frontal lobe. And then on the sides is  more of your sensory stuff. and then in the back is your actually your Occipital lobe for your eyes is in  the back, a long with your movement,  your cerebellum. So different spots,  that's why you have padding here, and  here and back here, is to protect all sides of the brain. So a concussion is just like your  brain keeps vibrating, basically, after the blow? So I like to think about it, and I meant to bring this in  and I apologize. So if you have...  Think about your Tupperware. and inside the  Tupperware you have an egg. You just cracked  a nice egg inside and then you shake it. So imagine  that egg is your brain. And that Tupperware is your skull. So the harder you rattle it,  what's going to happen to the egg? It will break. It's gonna break, right? The yolk's going to break, right? I mean your brain doesn't really break. But you can think that It's just kind  of the movement. Because if you think about  what does Newton's first law say? An object that's in motion will stay in motion  unless acted upon by outside force. So if the brain... If you get hit here, which way is your  brain going to go? That way. Until it hits the  skull and then it's going to *thunk* So that's what they  call rattling your cage. I was thinking of like  when I play baseball, when I swing the  bat and I hit the ball, and my hands keep like, I can feel it inside and like even after  a minute it will keep rattling. So now take that  and think about how that would... Okay! So David, can you uh... Explain what you  have so we can... This is kind of like the bridge  idea that I had where like there's like different columns that go around, like the frame. So in this, it would kind of be like,  the head goes right here and the helmet's right here. And these would be like some kind of material that's bendable. So, when something  hits it, they would bend in so, to absorb kind of the impact. Kind of like a cage  in the racing cars. Like how racing cars have a cage inside of them. Just in case they roll over,  the cage still protects the person. Yeah kind of... No, but... Yeah kind of like that  but these are like cushions. Yeah. So they  absorb the momentum. So like a coil? Like for your bed.  The bed spring that when you jump up on it,  you rebound back, so... Wouldn't that be  more dangerous if it's...? elastic? Yeah, it's elastic, and when we did the little  cars When it was elastic,  it completely transferred all of its momentum  to the other car. So when you get hit,  it will just like swing and then all the  momentum will hit you. instead of both  of you sharing it. So if you share,  it'd probably be better. But I don't know if that's... (Multiple people talking) Because I was also  thinking of mattresses. A little sleep mattresses. and how they talked about the coils  and how they give you pressure points and it will be stronger  over here than over here. and then they have the new  ones now that are like foam. The Tempurpedic ones, Yeah. So I was thinking also   if you like spread out... where the momentum goes. Saying if you spread out where  it won't be in one certain area. Then you won't get hit  really hard right here. And if you get hit  hard like over here, it'd probably be better  than getting hit hard just right there. -Yeah. It will probably  be less of a force. So when they  design like a helmet, they've got one piece thing  where it's like your body their shoulder pads  connected to their helmet. So your body absorbs some of  that too, instead of just your head. So that depends  how you turn your head And would it be  good if your body... have you guys ever heard that people who  are like drunk drivers they kind of walk  away from a car crash and it's the passengers or the victims are the ones  that get hurt the most... So think about what's different between their body in motion and  the other person's body in motion. So they're looser, right? They're not tightening their muscles  compared to someone who is trying to absorb the impact. We flex, right?  Just waiting for it, and  so, by being more rigid your body doesn't move. You're trying to  fight against the motion. So you get more of the whiplash and stuff like that. Because you...  It hurt your body more because you're  trying to fight against what you're body is  actually going to do instead of the other person  who's just like really loose is moving with it, so there's not as much impact. Well, I've been playing football and how you play like you want to win. You hit someone you want to. After that you're still going and if you are like losing the other person is stronger than you can beat you up like... I know. What he  is saying is like if you see someone  about to collide with you, you want to hit  him back instead of... Yeah. Why is that?  Related that to momentum. Because momentum  is vector, right? So you have to think  about the direction and of the way  that things are moving. So think back to... When we were playing  with different cars. So you had the greater mass  in one car going this way. And had the smaller  mass going this way. Right? So what would you want to  do to the smaller mass car to make sure that the impact of the.... Raise his speed Increase the speed, right? And so by knowing that  you're going to get hit you're going to  run a little faster. So then what was the... what is the ending result there? So like if you have more speed you hit the other object that has more mass Mean like....  how do you think is like... Inelastic, I don't know, like So what's going to happen? Are they going to  stay stuck together? (Multiple people speaking) So it's elastic so it comes off, right? Think about it  like a rubber band, an elastic rubber band. You can stretch it, so... elastic is, is saying, something  that's going to rebound. whereas inelastic  you're just rigid. There is no motion,  I guess, you should say. I thought that was inelastic, when you  hit something, it will both go off completely and  elastic it will stick together. And inelastics magnets.
