Well, let's say about like a plane. A plane can use the wing to, like, slice right through the, the wind, making it just fly with ease, but let's say the wing was vertical, and then it would just be working like a parachute and just stop its fall.
Okay, did everybody hear what he said?
No.
Daniel, did you understand what Jonathan was saying?
Yeah.
Okay, so does that make sense to you then, Daniel?
Yeah.
Okay, John?
About the thing, the last part, did he say vertical?
Yeah, like, like, like, vertical, like pointing upwards.
Oh. Okay.
What do you think? Reese, what do you think?
Um, what Jonathan said?
Jonathan, would you kind of say it again? Reese would really like to pay attention and he'd like to hear.
Yeah, I'm saying, like, like a wing, it uses, like, like, like a V shape of a duck, of a duck squad. Like every single wing goes down each part and then it's just like a V.
Okay.
Shayla?
Um, I said they fly because the air pressure in the wings gives it stability to keep stable and make sure it doesn't fall onto the ground.
Okay. Kelsey?
Um, I think that if the aerospace vehicle was in space then I think it would just float in space because there's no gravity.
Okay, we're kind of... yeah, Ramaji?
Okay, I'm kind of lost...
Ramaji is lost, let's help her find herself. No, that's a good thing. Because, I'll be honest, I'm a little lost. So tell me where you are.
Like, I thought we were supposed to put, like, why we think they were built, not how they were built, like, like, I wrote, um, I think aerospace vehicles fly to improve society and help, and new aerospace technology helps build modern things.
Okay. Can everybody understand where Ramaji went with her answers? Kelsey?
I'm totally lost now.
Okay, here's what happened, okay, so let me see if we can find this a different direction. Um, in reading all your different sentences, most of us had a purpose for aerospace vehicles flying, okay, or some of you wrote that they fly both in space and in the air, okay, and so we're not kind of getting where I want to get to. So can I, for a second, kind of change the discussion? Just because... Yes, John?
Is it, like, when you take a rocket, like, on the rocket it has, uh... two wings and like one tail?
Great, so, his question that he asked, does a rocket have two wings and a tail? Um, here's what's happening. Mm, I thought the vehicles would help you, and what I'm seeing is, having the vehicles is making you try to figure out what it is about how this vehicle was made. And I'm not as concerned about how this vehicle is made, okay, as I am the science behind how it flies and why we design it that way, does that make sense?
Yes.
Okay, so can we go a different way with me for a minute? Each of you has a picture of a hot air balloon on your table, correct? Okay. I know, I took yours, Reese, which is why you don't have one now. I need to know something, okay? This vehicle doesn't have an engine, okay? Okay? Now, I want you to think about this for a minute, and I want you to discuss it at your table before we talk whole group. I want to know how does this hot air balloon fly, how does it get in the air, and how does it stay in the air? And is it possible you don't know anything about this?
Possibly?
Possibly. It is possible, okay, it is possible, Joelle, you don't know anything about this, okay. So I want your table group to share what you know for a couple of minutes about a hot air balloon and how it flies, okay? And I'm gonna come around and talk to different groups, okay? So how does this hot air balloon fly? [Background Chatter] Okay, so you two start the discussion at this table. [Background Chatter] So, discuss that, because some of us did have a good concept and some of us don't, okay? So share in your group. Okay, what do you two know? [Background Chatter] Okay. Has an engine, a propulsion engine? [Background Chatter] Okay, but is that an engine? [Background Chatter] Okay, so now you can do your discussion. What did you come up with over here? [Background Chatter] So the fire blows hot air into the balloon. [Background Chatter] Okay, without it, it would do what? It would fall down, okay. Okay? So, any idea why the hot air makes the balloon rise? What do you think? [Background Chatter] Okay, okay. [clapping] Ooh, that was awesome. You are so good today. Um, I think we're now getting somewhere. So let's talk about this hot air balloon for a minute, okay. So, I've heard some different things around the classroom, I want to know how does that balloon get into the air? Nathan?
The fire in the hot air balloon blows the, the balloon up to where it can float down.
Okay, Shayla, do you agree or disagree?
I agree with that, because, yeah, because you pull on a cord and like, it lights up the fire and stuff, and then the fire pulls in air and it, like, shoots it up with the fire.
So, is the fire being shot into the hot air balloon?
No, air is.
What kind of air?
Hot air.
Hot air is being shot up into this part. Okay. John?
Didn't they say one of those, like if you compare...
They can't, Jonathan can't hear you.
Oh, sorry. If you compare a hot air balloon and a balloon, they're, you use hot air for the air balloon, and you use the helium for a small balloon, yeah, and the, it's not really air, kind of, I thought it was steam.
Okay, okay. Now why would you think it was steam?
Because you know how when you just, um, when you put like a fire, fire in one place, it sometimes can turn into steam? Maybe?
The fire turns into steam?
No, not the fire, but like when it's, when it's done...
Ann Maria says she thinks you need the word "water."
Yeah, because when you heat up water, then steam comes up out of it. Because steam is, like, moisture.
Steam is like moisture that's...
In the air.
In the air, okay. Ramaji?
I agree with you, John. [laughter] Okay, I think what he's saying is, because in air and the fire is there or whatever, and so then when they're getting pushed up that comes and like, then... I'm lost here! Okay, like then the steam, like, yeah, you were right about the moisture part, but it, but there is no way that, like, water is in this...
There isn't water in there!
Yeah, I mean...
Reese, be supportive. [laughter]
I mean, there's moisture in the air, but still, like... fire is a big part of it!
Okay, can I ask a question? Okay? Do I need water in order for the hot air balloon to fly?
No, no you don't!
Ramaji says no, Laura says no?
I said no.
Mariah says no. Kelsey?
I'm totally lost! [Background Chatter]
Kelsey, it's okay to be lost, okay. Kelsey, you're, if you're lost, you need to know where you are. So here's the question, what do you feel like you know and understand about what's been discussed so far?
I thought I was understanding everything until John said... I'm so confused right now!
So tell me...
John was talking about steam.
John was talking about steam. I would agree, Kevin, John was talking about steam. So the question is, prior to that, Kelsey, okay, prior to that, what would be your understanding of how the hot air balloon flies?
Basically, nothing before that, I just think it's steam, because of like hot and air, because, or like, there would be like a fire inside of the air and then it would be steamy...
Okay, let's see if I can bring around some concepts. Ramaji and John, can you let me have two seconds, okay? Um, we have a concept of this fire that's heating air, but we also seem to have a concept of water that gets heated and creates steam. Correct? But I'm also hearing, and I just want to make sure I understand, I'm hearing that the steam isn't necessary for the balloon to go up. John?
Well this is, this is how I thought it was steam. Because you know how sometimes there's clouds, and you, you want to go up in the air balloon, and sometimes it might rain, like when you're in the air balloon sometimes it, like, when you pass through a cloud and the air is super hot, it actually turns into steam I think.
Okay. Ramaji?
Okay.
Listen, I've got to come over here.
Okay, so like, like...
You two can put your hand down for a minute and I'll go to you next.
So like, steam is, I think it's putting pressure, like on the balloon to like, make it go up?
So we feel like we have air pressure, okay.
I don't agree with Ramaji though because with the air there's no steam involved, there's like, kinda like what John said, he said when the planes come up the hot air pushes it...
Okay, I'm gonna ask... Oops, I didn't let you speak.
Well, like, it's just like, like comparing this to a regular balloon, with helium it would float up just like an air balloon, but you can't put helium in an air balloon.
Does everybody understand that? So if I put... okay, that is an awesome analogy! So everybody listen. If I put helium, helium is a...
A gas!
A gas, okay, helium is a gas, so if I take a regular rubber balloon and I put helium in it, the helium because it's a gas, helium floats, that makes my balloon float, right? Whereas if I just blow up a balloon, what happens? It just falls down on the ground and I got nothing, okay. On the flip side, Kevin, what she's saying is, with a hot air balloon, instead of filling it with helium, I'm filling it with hot air, okay? Now I have a question, I think you've got to think really deep about this one. If hot air, Reese, is what makes my hot air balloon go up, okay, I want to know, would it be easier for me to fly my hot air balloon on a warm day or on a cold day? Just think about it for a second, just think. Would it be easier for my hot air balloon, do you think, to fly on a hot day or a cold day?
What about on a windy day?
Ooh! Okay, she said what about on a windy day. Let's assume that there's a slight breeze, on either day, okay, but the temperature is either warm or the temperature is cold, okay? Kelsey?
I personally think that it would be better to be on a hot day, because then the sun would be helping with all the hot air so then it would make the air inside the hot air balloon warmer to help it fly higher.
So I'd get radiation into the balloon? Okay. Ramaji.
I think a cold day.
And why on a cold day?
Because, like, there's not, I mean, even on hot days, there's still, like, low humidity sometimes, and so, like, it, you basically with fire would kind of... I don't know, not set your hair on fire, but like... [laughter] No, when it's cold there's no moisture in the air, so like, it would be, like, like helium, but like...
Okay, Shayla?
I think that it's a hot day. One of the reasons is because there's hot in the hot air balloon, and if it was on a cold day, there's a fire in the thing, in the hot air balloon, it could blow out the fire and that could make the whole thing just plummet to the ground, and people could die.
Okay. Ann Maria?
I think it would be better on a cold day, because, well, I don't know if this actually really makes sense, but, like, the hot air would be working against the cold air--
Exactly!
And like if it's on a hot day it would be like the same.
Just a second. So Ann Maria, if the cold... if the warm air is in the hot air balloon, and it's a cold day, what would you expect to happen to the balloon?
Go up.
And why would you expect the balloon to go up on a cold day faster than on a hot day?
Because... like, the hot air would be... pushing against the cold air, faster than it would be pushing against itself?
Okay. Over here.
I agree with Shayla on the hot day, because, like, a regular air balloon, just regular heat would make it go up, but if you had the sun hitting against it, I think, it would help with radiation, like the sun would help out...
The fire?
Yeah, how it has something to do with radiation.
Okay.
I think the sun hitting against the balloon would make it go up higher.
Okay. Nathan?
I think on a cold day, because it would give it less chance of popping from the hot air, that might pop it.
Awesome. Kevin, what do you think?
I think the same, hot air, because I've never seen a hot air balloon fly when it's cold.
Okay. Dakota? Oh wait, Kevin, I have a question for you. How do you define a cold day? Okay, what's the, okay, here's my question, okay. You said you'd never seen a hot air balloon fly on a cold day, and what I'm asking is, is there a particular season that you would say the air would be too cold?
Winter.
Winter, okay. Dakota, what do you think?
Uh, I think, uh...
Kevin, Dakota can think on his own. I know he can.
I don't know.
Cold day, warm day, what do you think?
I think a warm day, because it would be easier to fly?
Okay, Daniel, what do you think? Cold day, warm day?
I would say a cold day, because the hot air would meet the cold air, so it would be more enhanced, going up you'd get more from the hot air.
Okay, I need to kind of bring this to a close real quick, and I know you two have lots to say, Tyree, did you want to add the last comment?
Yeah. Uh, I think the hot day, because who would go out on a cold day, when the higher you get, the colder it gets.
Okay, Tyree says who would go out on a cold day, because the higher you get, the colder you get, so Tyree's logic here is that if I'm going to go in a hot air balloon, I don't want to get really really cold. Okay, ladies, I know you have lots to add, okay, but I kind of want to bring this to a close, but I need to know a crucial question. So everybody has to commit to this question. I want you to-- don't do it until I tell you to! Ready? You're gonna hold, um, you're gonna hold your arm straight up if you believe the better day would be the warm day, and you're gonna hold your hand at the side of your shoulder if you believe it would be the cold day that would be the better day. I didn't say go yet! Okay, on three, everybody. So, does everybody understand? This is cold, this is warm, okay? Ready, one, two, three. Okay. Okay, now hands down. I have just two more questions, and then we're gonna close out today's lesson, okay. Question number one. I want to know if you've ever heard the word...
