Dan do you have any background knowledge about density?
Like if someone says, "It's dense out,"
Yeah.
Then it would be kinda wet.
So if something's really, like if there was a dense fog
yeah, it'd be...
So if there was a dense fog, what does that mean to you?
That there's a lot.
There's a lot of it, okay. So you're in San Francisco, and they're like, "Hey, there's a really dense fog." You might expect that there's a lot of fog. Alright, what would be the opposite of a dense fog?
A not dense fog.
No fog or like a really thin fog. Okay, Jackson, do you have any background information?
Well I thought that, isn't it like how close the molecules are together?
How close the what?
The molecules are together.
How closely they are... okay.
Yeah. Like say you're trying to go through a screen door. And like, they aren't really very close together, because they'res holes.
Okay.
And say, you're trying to go through a brick wall.
Okay.
And they're really close together, so it will be harder to go through.
Would you say then, which one would be densest, the brick wall or the screen door?
The brick wall.
The brick wall, and you would say that because?
Because the molecules are closer together.
The molecules are closer together. Okay, anybody else have any ideas about density? Yes ma'am.
Isn't it like how compact something is?
Okay, so give me an example.
Like um don't know how to say this ... kinda going back to the container thing. If we could have luggage, and you fill it up so much, the luggage case is like so filled up, it's so dense.
Okay, so let me take that to the next level. So, let's pretend we're going on vacation.
Okay, we're going on vacation. Raise your hand if you have a place you want to go. Or maybe you're going there next week. I'd be so jealous if you said Hawaii.
Oh yeah.
I could be.
Reese where are you going? Or where would you want to go?
Uuh, Mexico.
You're going to Mexico?
Well not this break, in the in the summer.
In the summer. Alright, so let's build this scenario. He's got one of those big, huge rolling bags that you're gonna put all of your swimsuits in. To go to Mexico, because you don't need other clothes. Flip-flops, swimsuits, and a t-shirt, and that's it.
Okay, so you got your huge luggage... we're gonna pile, all this stuff in there. I'm gonna zip it up. What does that have to do with density? If it's absolutely packed full, what does that mean for the luggage? Yeah.
That the particles are so close together that it's leaving them in...
Is the volume of the luggage changing if it keeps its shape?
Or is, the mass of the luggage changing, because you're adding more stuff to it.
The mass
So you change the mass, because the luggage is staying the same. Okay, your mom says, "You can only bring one swimsuit, "one flip-flop, a pair of flip-flops, and one t-shirt." So I take everything out, now did I change the volume by it, or did I change the mass of the luggage?
The mass.
I just changed the amount of matter, right? So then, the luggage with tons of stuff in it, we said was... what dense or not dense?
Dense
And dense, and so the luggage with a little bit of stuff in it was?
Less dense.
What changed the density of the luggage? What are the other conclusions to what changed the density of the luggage? Peter, what changed the density of the luggage?
Less amount.
Less amount, and in science, which word do we use?
Umm
Volume or mass on that one?
Umm... mass.
Less mass, less stuff, less matter in the luggage. Awesome, we're gonna do this little scenario with a demonstration, so you guys need your clickers. it's gonna be an A or a B type answer on this one. So get your clicker ready, and I'm gonna show you a couple of clips.
Cheese! Ooooh!
Cheese.
Can we eat it? when some people in here don't like it?
I know well, more for me, right.
What?
What?
Alright so, this is cheese. This morning, I went to Safeway and I purchased this cheese that is extremely difficult to open. And I bought certain kinds of cheese
Can I have some?
[Teacher] Alright. So...
Do we get to eat the cheese?
You do not.
Aww dang it!
Sorry.
Why can't we eat it?
So here's your question
[Sighs] This is cheese A, okay. Anybody know what kind of cheese that it is?
Grayson, what's cheese A?
Umm... Swiss?
Swiss, what's your observation that led you to the inference that this is Swiss cheese?
That is has the little holes in it.
The little holes in it. Okay, this is regular old...
Cheddar
Raise your hand... Yeah, Dan know what it is?
Cheddar or...
This is a Cheddar cheese.
Okay, So this is cheese A, and this is cheese B. I want to know which cheese is denser. Okay, so with your clicker, I'm gonna put this up on the screen, I want to know, cheese A the Swiss cheese, or cheese B,
Are they supposed to be numbers?
Well, it's gonna be an A or a B. Right so cheese A or cheese B. Alright, and if you need to see the cheese again, walk around. In the meantime, I'll put this question up. I want to know is cheese A the densest? Or is cheese B the densest? Okay, so this is multiple-choice, A or B. There we go, go ahead and click it. And let's see what you guys think about which cheese is the densest.
So the Cheddar is B?
So A is the Swiss, B is the Cheddar.
That doesn't make a lot of sense.
A is the Swiss...
Are we each going to be able to get a piece?
Please don't talk while we're doing this.
My clicker isn't working
It's not working? Which number are you?
83.
Is it on?
Yeah [student laughs]
Are you pressing the right button, "Send?"
Oh there it goes.
Okay. good
It probably didn't power.
Alright, make sure you clicked in please. And then, let's look at what we think. Okay 92% of you, said that the cheddar was the densest. So, we had another 8%, so two people said that this was the densest. So here's what I want you to do, I want you to pull a partner, who's just the person next to you. So you guys are gonna be partners, you guys are partners, you guys are partners, and you're gonna be a group of three. Partner, partner, partner Mattie and Grayson, and you guys will partner. Sydney and Jackson, and it's kinda gonna go crossways here. So you guys will be a partner. You guys are a partner, and you guys are a partner. Right, you're going to turn to your partner, tell your partner which cheese you thought was the densest, and then I want you to come up with a conclusion, that you could say, "Cheese A was the densest because..." or "Cheese B was the densest because..." So take 30 seconds to talk. [Background Chatter]
Less mass,
Cheddar
So what is the definition of density, from here to the cheese? Which one is denser, the one with more stuff or less stuff?
More
So which of these has more stuff
Ooh
Nice of you guys, and you're not very nice. [alarm goes off] Okay that was 30 seconds. Okay, choose which person in your group is gonna be Swiss cheese, and which person gonna be Cheddar.
Swiss! [Background Chatter]
Cheddar
Swiss Cheeses, raise your hand please.
Woo!
Swiss cheese? And I need a conclusion from you, so make a statement for me. "We thought "cheese A was the densest because..." so Erica,
We thought cheese B was the densest because it didn't have any holes.
Because it didn't have any holes, okay. Does anybody have a different explanation why they thought cheese B was the densest? Matt.
Well, because cheese A had holes, the holes don't take in the part of the, technical isn't part of the cheese.
Okay
So...
So the inside of the holes, what are the holes actually made up of?
Air.
So there's air in there, but it's not part of the cheese. So then, what's true about the Swiss cheese then Reily?
It has the less cheese.
Less cheese, compared to its what?
Compared to has all of it.
So it's all cheese and this is part cheese. What can we say now about their volumes?
Umm, they're pretty much the same.
Okay, so the volume is the same. Jackson, what can we say about the mass of the Swiss compared to the mass of this guy?
The Swiss has less mass than the Cheddar cheese.
So the Swiss has less mass then the Cheddar. But they have the same volume, can we figure out then which one's the densest? Which one's the densest? [girls singing]
What's both, alright. You had a chance to talk about it, let's vote again. Do you think cheese A is the densest or cheese B is the densest? After our little discussion. Cheese A or cheese B. A is the Swiss, B is the Cheddar.
So we want to know who's more dense
More dense yep, Which one is more dense. More dense. Is A more dense or is B more dense? Let's see if we get an agreement on our inference here about which one's denser. Look at that, we were able to change two people's minds just through discussion. That's pretty awesome.
I thought it would be eight people.
Well we went all the way to 100% here. So that's good. That means that everybody agreed, at least in terms of the cheese. So, as a demonstration...
What!
Well I need a snack, this is really hard work being a teacher.
It's hard to be a student.
That's true. Okay, ready for demo number two?
Yeah
So cheese number one, number two, first we need to talk about, what sinking, floating, and suspending means.
I know it
So in order to talk about this, I have these fun objects. I don't know, has anybody stayed up late enough to see David Letterman?
Yes!
Oh gosh, I lost an animal. [students laugh] has anybody on David Letterman ever seen the game show he plays called, "Will it float?"
Yeah, I've seen it happen.
Have you Wyatt? What does he do? Do you know what he does?
Well I saw it a while ago, so I don't relaly remember.
So you're not really sure? Anybody wanna guess what he does on the show?
He throws stuff in water.
He takes some stuff, then he puts it in water to sees if it floats or not.
That's pretty much the gist of the game show. So I have, for your viewing pleasure, recreated a game show. So I have objects, we're gonna play a game called, "Will it float?" And the first object, you're going to predict this through the clicker. Is I wanna know, if our little dolphin friend, is it going to float... okay sink... or the third option which is tricky, you might not know this word, suspend. And suspends means hang out kinda in the middle of the water. So you have three options, alright. We're gonna vote on this with the clickers. Do you have a question before we do that?
When you put it to the test, can I move forward?
Absolutely, so if you can't see, you can either stand up or you can squeeze up into an aisle, yeah absolutely. Yes sir.
Which one is it, A, B , or C?
Oh I'm gonna tell you right now, okay. So we're gonna see if the dolphin floats, sinks, or suspends. And if you can't see when I do it, we'll count and you can stand up and watch. So A is gonna be sink, so do you think it's gonna sink. B, answer B will be float. C will be suspend, Okay, so sink, float, suspend which means hang out in the middle of the water. Okay, so this is an A through C option. Okay, A sink, B float, or C suspend.
Well that was fast.
Yeah, that was really fast. So let's see... everyone...oooo object is going to sink. If it sinks, what will you observe? If it sinks, what will you observe.
How fast.
It falling into the water
Well, he's going to fall into the water one way or another but where will he end up?
On the bottom.
At the bottom of that okay? Some of you, one person said that it's gonna float. Okay, so raise your hand if you're the person who thinks it's gonna float. Okay, thank you for taking a risk, that's okay. You don't know yet right, it's for fun. So if its floating, what will that mean, what will you observe?
That's she right.
When I put this in the water, what will it look like when it's floating?
Like... I don't know
Will it will be sitting on the bottom?
No.
Where will it be located.
Floating on the.
Floating, right on the top, okay. And then we had, oooooh three whole people said it would suspend right in the middle. Raise your hand if you think it's gonna suspend.
Oh yeah!
Okay.  Leia, why do you think it's gonna go right in the middle.
I think it's too light for it to totally sink, and I think it's took heavy for it to float, so thought it would be right in the middle.
Okay, so you're making the hypothesis it has something to do with its weight. Okay, alright so that's one idea. Too light to stay at the top. But too heavy would go to the bottom. Is that what you said? Okay, yes.
So does suspend mean it stays in the middle.
Yeah, suspend means it literally hangs out right here.
Yeah.
Okay, that's not true.
Okay, are you guys ready?
Yes.
So stand up if you need to be able to see. Here's the game show, there's a little song that goes with it like, ♫ Will it float, will it float ♫ Okay, there's my game show, you ready? Alright it's very suspenseful. Can you see?
Okay, here it goes. [kids singing]
Yes!
Aww yeah! [students clapping]
So, it sank. So go back and have a seat please. Now raise your hand if you have any explanation for me why that sank. It did sink, oh no! We've all been down to the bottom of the pool. Why do you think it sank?
I thought it wasn't flat enough, or didn't have enough space enough to float up.
So now we've got two different ideas about sinking and foating. So Leia brought up the idea of heaviness, you brought up the idea of surface area. See if I were to put something that has a bigger surface area, is it gonna float?
No
Yes
Maybe, did you tell me that if it had bigger surface on top of the water. Okay, should we try this?
Yeah!
It's gonna sink
Oooh
Okay, so maybe
Aaaaw
It got swamped. Now it floated for a little while right? So maybe the shape does have something to do with it, and maybe weight has something to do with it. Or what it's made out of might have something to do with it. So we have all kinds of ideas now about sinking and floating. Yes sir,
Is it because it's denser than water?
So here's another idea, it has something to do with the density of the object.
It's denser than water.
So here's a tough question, so think about this one. What is the difference between how dense something is, and how heavy something is? If Leia talked about heaviness, now we've got density, and now we've got shape, and what it's made of and all these different things so. I just want to know this one thing. What's the difference between the weight of an object and the density of an object. This is a really hard question, take a second. I want you to rotate back to your partner, talk to them about what you think the difference between density and weight is. [Background Chatter]
Okay, when we talked about number of particles, it's later than mass.
Mass.
Mass, so the relationship between mass compared to the object. Okay. Okay who spoke last time, 'cause I need a cheddar. [Background Chatter]
Oh yeah
A cheddar who's willing to talk. Emily, what did you guys come up with?
So, density is like how much mass or how many particles are in the object. And weight is how much gravity is pulling down.
Okay.  So would that mean that something...
