Do you know how to make a U shape, like this? You're gonna make the U shape with this first. It's gonna make a U.
You're making sod homes. What are sod homes? (background chatter) Tell me what all you know about a sod home. (background chatter) There were some homes that were dug out. That were built, the dugouts were in a hill, okay. Tell me what else you know about sod home. (background chatter) Okay, and why did they use sod to make houses? (background chatter) Yeah, okay, so they didn't have trees. What kind of land were they on?
A prairie!
A prairie, and what is a prairie?
It's a flat kind of land, and it never has any trees.
Okay, okay. Would you have wanted to live in a sod home?
I'd choose a log cabin, where (background chatter)
Okay, were there any good things about a sod home?
Um, yeah.
What is something good about a sod home? (background chatter) Okay, what are the walls like in a sod home? (background chatter) Are they thick, are they thick walls? Okay, okay. Did they have any furniture in their sod homes? (background chatter) They did, why didn't they have furniture? JD, why didn't they have furniture in their sod homes?
[JD] Because they weren't, I think. (background chatter)
Abby, do you know why they, they didn't have furniture in their sod homes?
[Abby] No, but--
Did they bring their furniture with them?
[Abby] No because of the wagon.
It would take up the whole wagon? Okay, so what did they bring? What did they bring, Hannah?
[Hannah] A gun?
They did, they brought a gun. And food, okay? So they didn't bring their furniture with them. Why not? Why didn't they bring their furniture?
'Cause it was too big, and it would take up the whole wagon.
Okay. (background chatter) Okay. Didn't they have more than one wagon?
Yes, (background chatter)
That's right, a wagon train, very good. Okay, I'm gonna leave you guys to work, and I'm gonna be back and check on your sod homes, okay? (background chatter)
It smells very good! (background chatter)
Okay, (mumbling) and I'll help you. I see that you have trunks. Why do you have a trunk? (background chatter) Oh, that's very nice, to help. Eli, why do you all have trunks?
[Eli] Because, um, the pioneers had them.
The pioneers had trunks? Why? Why did they have trunks?
[Eli] For their clothes and stuff.
And toys.
And toys.
Like, we're making the doll.
Okay, what were trunks made out of?
[Eli] Wood.
Wood. Oh you guys are sharing, it's so great. Thank you! So their trunks were made out of wood. What kind of homes did they live in?
[Eli] Sod houses and log homes.
Sod houses and log homes.
Log cabins.
And log cabins. Okay. (background chatter) That's right, that's right. And so, when they traveled, when they left their homes, what did they travel in?
[Eli] A covered wagon.
A covered wagon. Was there just one wagon?
[Eli] No! They got in a wagon train.
A wagon train, and what was a wagon train?
[Eli] It's a bunch of covered wagons. (background chatter)
Oxen, in a wagon train. In a wagon train, would you have wanted to be at the front or the back of the wagon train. Why?
I have an idea. Erase, erase, erase, erase.
You won't get that dirty.
You won't get that dirty? Why would you not get that dirty at the front?
[Eli] Because they can't move their (mumbles).
Okay. Okay. What would happen in the wagon train? Would they take care of each other?
[Eli] Yeah.
Okay. What if a wheel broke off of a wagon?
They would have to help each other. (background chatter)
Okay, okay they would help each other. Tell me this, Eli. Where was the wagon, where were the wagons going?
[Eli] West.
They were going West. Why were they going West, Cayden?
They thought they would settle the land.
Okay, Karev, why did the government give them free land? (background chatter)
Okay, they were (mumbling). What did they have to do on that land?
[Eli] Build a house.
Okay, build a house, that's right. That's right, so what kind of house did they build?
[Karev] (mumbling) A sod house.
They made a sod house. Why did they not make a wood house?
[Karev] Because there weren't a lot of trees on the prairie.
Okay, but you said the trunks were made out of wood, how did they get trunks made out of wood?
[Karev] Because they made it before they left.
They made it before they left, that's correct.
Can the doll have long hair?
You're doing a great job. You're just gonna have to imagine that. That's right, they made their trunks before they left. Did they just need one trunk?
[Eli] No.
Okay.
[Eli] Twice.
Okay. Do you know Eli? Can you go show me on the map, where the pioneers went on the prairie, where the prairie was? Okay, and what is that?
The Prairie.
[Teacher] The prairie, and how do you know it's a prairie?
Because there's no, like, mountains there.
[Teacher] How do you know there's no mountains?
Because, these are the mountains. Just like regular colors are not.
[Teacher] Okay, and so on the prairie, what kind of homes did they build?
Sod houses.
[Teacher] Sod houses. So where did they build their log houses at?
[Eli] Right in this area.
[Teacher] Okay! Very good, and why did they build 'em there? What was there?
Wood.
[Teacher] A lot of wood. Good job! You can go sit down. Thank you! You did a great job! Very good job. (background chatter) Did they take everything with them on the trip? Why did they not take everything with them? (speech drowned out by other children talking) Okay, so when they got there, did they have furniture to put into their sod homes?
No, because (background chatter)
They just moved in, they had just moved in. Where there good things about a sod home? Eli, what was good about a sod home? (background chatter) That's right, and what made them that way?
Because the ground is cooler.
Okay, the ground is cooler. Were the log homes good as well?
[Eli] Yeah.
Okay, but what was one bad thing about a log house compared to a sod house?
[Eli] It's not warm in winter.
And do you remember when we did a Venn Diagram about the sod house and the log house and compared those two?
Yeah, (background chatter)
So that was the bad thing about a sod home is the animals could fall through. What was the best structure to live in?
[Eli] A log cabin.
A log cabin.
So that, animals couldn't get on top of it and (background chatter)
If you lived in a dug out, Cayden, would you, if it came a big rain storm, would you rather be at the front of the dug house or the back of the dug out?
[Cayden] Back.
Why? (background chatter) It's a dryer place, isn't it. Okay, you guys continue to work, okay? (background chatter) Tell me what you know about a log house. Willie, tell me something you know about a log house. (background chatter) Okay, they didn't have any air conditioners, (mumbling). Kennedy, you guys are making a log house. What are you putting in your log house?
Dolls and some family and some furniture.
Okay. Did they have a lot of furniture for their log house Brody? Did they have furniture for their log house?
[Brody] Yeah, but when they got there, they had to have time to gather up some furniture.
That's right, when they first moved there, they didn't have any furniture. But eventually they built some, didn't they? I see you're putting a fireplace in there. What did they burn in their fireplace?
They were burning, um buffalo chips.
They are? In a log house they're burning buffalo chips? (background chatter) That's right, in a sod house, they're gonna burn buffalo chips. Why not wood in a sod house?
Because, in a prairie, they would run out of, if they had enough wood, they would build a wood house, build a log house.
That's exactly right. (background chatter) Were there buffalo chips where there were log houses?
No.
Why were there not buffalo chips? (background chatter) So buffalo cannot run in the forest where the trees were. Where did the buffalo live? What was it called?
The prairie.
[Teacher] The prairie. And what is a prairie? (background chatter) Open grasslands, that's exactly right. And what are you making, Dillon?
[Dillon] A quilt.
Why are you making a quilt? Tell me why the pioneers needed quilts for. (background chatter) To sit on them, what else did they do with them Willie? (background chatter) They (mumbles) on them when they were on their way. What else, Dillon? (background chatter) Okay, did they not have beds?
Yes!
No they didn't.
Okay. (background chatter) That's right.
Okay.
they had to sleep on the floor Are you putting a kitchen in your log house? (background chatter)
No because they (mumbling).
Well, where did they keep their food at? (background chatter) The root cellar. Where, tell me about a root cellar. What's a root cellar?
It's where they kept their frozen food.
Okay, was it inside the log cabin or was it outside?
[Dillon] Outside.
Okay. And what was the root cellar like? (background chatter) Okay. (background chatter) Brody, you're exactly right, that is great thinking. That is great thinking. Did they keep any food inside their homes?
Yes.
What'd they keep inside their homes?
Flour and sugar.
Flour and sugar, and where would they have kept those? In what container? (background chatter) What kind of container? Were they barrels that they put them in?
Yeah.
Yeah, they were barrels. You guys are doing a great job and you're working together, and I'm gonna come back and check on you in a little bit, all right?
[Billy] Look what I made!
What is that, Willie? (background chatter) It's what?
[Dillon] A lantern. A lantern, why do you have a lantern in your log house? (background chatter) Okay, and so, you can see?
[Willie] Yeah!
That's right, 'cause they didn't have electricity did they?
[Willie] 'Cause they had (mumbling).
[Teacher] So they could see to cook? Good thinking! (background chatter)
I need to do my little girl, okay?
I'll do the girl.
