[Instructor] So, who can tell me, in this group, who can remind me, what is our objective? What are we discovering today in science? I'd like to see a lot of volunteers. Lindsey?
[Lindsey] We're seeing what soil holds water better and...
We're seeing which soil holds water better. What's the term for that? Holds water? Chris.
[Chris] It's absorbing the water.
What's absorbing the water?
The clay and the sand absorb the water.
Very good. So we're trying to figure out which absorbs more water. Clay or sand, today? Very good. Who can tell me what was the first step that you did in this project? Cameron.
[Cameron] First, we poured in the sand.
What did you pour the sand into?
We poured it into a funnel.
Okay. What's that thing on the funnel?
It's a coffee filter.
It's a coffee filter. Why do we need a coffee filter on the funnel?
Because when it's on the funnel it makes it so that the sand doesn't run through the funnel.
Okay. All right. What's the second step? Can somebody tell me what the second step is? Cameron said you dump the soil sample, whether it was clay or sand, into your funnel. What's the second step? Caleb.
[Caleb] The second second step is to pour in the water.
The second step was to pour in the water. Who can tell me what the third step is? What's the third step? Chris.
You record how long it took for it to drip every last drop into the cup of water.
What's it?
The water.
The water. Good. You're recording how long it took for all of the water... what's that word called? What did that water do to get from here to the surface to the bottom of the cup? Cameron?
It drained.
It drained. Very good. What are you measuring in? Are you measuring in seconds? Are you measuring in minutes? In hours? Lindsey?
Measuring in minutes with the seconds.
You're measuring in minutes with seconds. Okay. Can you tell me how long your clay is up to for draining out the water?
Two minutes and a half.
Two and a half minutes. Good. Can you tell me, Cameron, how long it took for your water to drain through your sand?
It took 28 seconds.
Twenty-eight seconds. Good job. Keep up the good work. I really like all the diagrams that I'm seeing. Lindsey, you did an excellent job at paying very close attention and following the steps, in step-by-step order. You can give yourself a point for science. Good job. [Soft Background Chatter] Ladies, can you tell me did your sand hold water?
[Luana] Yes.
It did hold water. How did you know that?
Because it absorbs some of the water. I poured it in here and it had into the water, so the sand holds 11 milliliters of water.
Good. So you're saying that the sand held 11 milliliters of water. You said that when you poured the water in through the sand then you dumped something in this graduated cylinder. What did you dump in this graduated cylinder?
[Student] We dumped all the water that was in there.
What's there?
In the cup.
So you dumped all the water that was in the cup after what? What did the water do in order to get in the cup?
It drained through the funnel, through the sand, down into the cup.
So it drained through the funnel, through the sand, down into the cup. So then you took your water and you poured it in your graduated cylinder. Luana, you said you did 40 minus 29 to get 11 milliliters? Why did you do 40 minus 29?
Because that's how you find out how much the sand is holding.
That's how you find out how much the sand is holding? How did you know to start with 40?
Because we poured 40 milliliters of water in the cup to start.
Oh. To start, you poured 40 milliliters of water in. You took the water that you had to start and took away the amount that was left, which you got 11 milliliters. Very good. Excellent. Gentlemen, what are you noticing about sand and water?
[Student] We're noticing, about the sand, this time it took us two minutes and eight seconds for it to stop dripping. We started out with 40 milliliters and...
What did you do with that 40 milliliters of water?
We poured it into the strainer to drain it down into the cup and when we poured into the cylinder we had 28 and a half milliliters.
Very good. How do you figure out how much water is in the sand. What subtraction sentence would you do?
Forty minus 30.
So you're rounding up. You said you had to 30?
Yes.
That's a very good choice. You're going to do 40 minus 30 so that tells you how much water is in the sand, which is?
One, 10.
Ten what?
Milliliters.
Ten milliliters. Very good. Do you think some of that water's still in the funnel? Because this funnel is still dry. This funnel feels wet. Do you think some of that 10 milliliters of water is in this... not funnel, in this filter?
Yes.
Do you think so? Why do you think that?
Because it's soaked and some of the water might have stopped in there because it was so thick and sandy.
And now it's a little bit thinner? Keep up the great work. [Soft Background Chatter] Sam and Madison, what are you noticing about water with your sand and water with your clay?
[Sam] The sand drains the water faster than the clay.
The sand drains the water faster than the clay. Have you figured out yet which one holds more water?
Clay.
The clay holds more water. If you were a gardener and if you were planting a garden, what would you rather garden with? Would you rather garden with sand or would you rather garden with clay?
Sand.
Why's that?
Because it drains water better and the drainage would get to the plants faster.
Okay. So the drainage would get to the plants faster. Where do the plants need the water?
Roots.
At the roots. What do you think, Madison?
[Madison] I would do a mixture of sand, clay, and humus because mixed together it's loamy and loamy soil is good for the plants.
Great observation. That's wonderful. So you said you'd mix all of them together because that would make a loamy mixture which would allow the gardeners to get the best soil for the plants to grow. Very good. Nice job. What are you three noticing about water and sand and water and clay?
[Student] Water and sand, it can absorb through the sand, the water. And through the clay it soaks and [inaudible] at four minutes.
You're almost at four minutes for your clay. Wow. What do you think this shows you about what happens on a rainy day whether it's outside in our soccer field? Or what happens on a rainy day in your backyard? Does anybody want to tell me what happens?
The clay, it gets very muddy because the water is pouring down on it. It might make a puddle because some of the soil on the ground can't hold itself so it might make a puddle.
Good. So Matthew, when you poured your water into your clay, did you have a puddle at the top of your clay?
[Matthew] Yeah, we had a puddle at the top of our clay because it was leaking little drops and it stayed on top of the clay. We had to wait a long time till we could pour more water.
What stayed for a long time on top of the clay?
The water did because it didn't have small particle sizes so it was hard for the water to get through.
Oh, so the clay has small particle sizes so it's hard for the water to get through. Wow. Good job. What does that mean about the particle size for the sand?
It means that the particle for sand is bigger and it has more space for the water to drain through.
Good. Excellent. Did any of you draw diagrams of what your experiment set-up looked like?
What it looked like?
I think you have a diagram on the previous page. Did you draw a diagram?
Yes.
Okay. What did your diagram show?
My diagram, for sand, shows that the water is going right through the funnel and it's pouring to the bottom. And for my clay it's little drops because the clay is stuck together once it has water.
Good. I can easily tell, in your diagram, which one's sand and which one's clay. One suggestion that I can make to you, though, is I would like a few more labels. If I were to never see this experiment before, how would I know that this is sand and that this is clay? So if you could label those for me and tell me what these drops are. I don't know if they're water, or [inaudible] or milk. If you could do a little bit more labelling for me, that would be excellent. Good job. Nice work. Very impressive. [Soft Background Chatter] How long are you guys up to for your water being through your filter, through your clay?
[Xavier] Five minutes and 45 seconds.
Five minutes and 45 seconds. I can tell that both of you are working very hard. And Xavier, you're doing excellent job at staying in your seat the whole time. You can give yourself a point right now for being on task. Nice job. Good. What are you noticing about sand, clay and water?
[Student] I noticed that the clay held less water than the sand and I was really surprised by that because I thought that water can go through sand fast.
So you were really surprised because you didn't think water would go through sand that fast? And how much water did your sand hold?
Our sand held 11 milliliters.
Eleven milliliters. Good. And how much did your clay hold, do you know?
[Kendall] Five.
Held five milliliters. Wow. What number sentence did you do in order to figure out how many milliliters were in the clay and how many milliliters were in the sand?
We did 40 minus however the milliliters were left in the cup.
Okay. And why did you do that?
Because we had 40 to begin with and we needed to find out how many were left and... I forgot.
You forgot? Kendall, can you help her out?
We got 29 in this and it began with 40. So we had to do 40 minus 29. Forty minus 29 is 11 millimeters.
Milliliters. Good. Remember millimeters is when we're using rulers and milliliters is when we're measuring water. Okay? Excellent job. Which soil would you rather garden with? Would you rather garden with sand or would you rather garden with clay?
I would garden with both of them so I could get a  loamy soil and loamy soils are better for the flowers.
Okay. So you would mix them together so that you could get a loamy mixture. What about you, Kendall?
I would do sand because water can get through it easily.
So water can get through it easily? Why would that matter?
Because the soil and everything else, and the grass and everything, needs water but if you use clay it just stays on top and it can't get water.
Very good. Excellent. Looks like you girls are ready to move on to your graphing. What are we going to graph? What are we graphing today?
How much water is in the...
