Yeah. Why don't we list that up here? [inaudible] Okay. Here is what you're going to do. Go ahead and put your pencils back inside that basket for me really quick. Put those pencils away in ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one and just to make sure you haven't [inaudible]. Now, you have identified, you have taken this work of art, you've seen what it is and you've taken out all those elements of art and you listed them and you told me how they were being used. Now, we need to figure out what is that artist trying to tell you with those elements. What kind of thought, feeling is this artist communicating to you with these elements, with this subject? So, who can raise their hand and tell us first what is one element that you found? What's one?
Shapes.
Shapes. What's another one?
Color.
Color.
Shape lines.
Value.
Value. Texture. You guys, with those elements, they're telling you something. So, here's what we're going to. We're going to put on our thinking, pairing, and sharing hats. So, whatever I do that [inaudible] so you guys can pair and share together, will you take your material with you so that you can use them for reference? Thank you. All right. First question--ready? The first question is how does this man feel? Now, think for 30 seconds by yourself how does this man feel? No talking. Think to yourself. Think. Shh... You've got to tell me why, too. Don't just think about feeling. Tell me why. Two people look like they're pairing already. Don't pair yet. Now, tell your neighbors what you think this man is thinking, is feeling is feeling. [cross talk] All right. Now we're ready to share with the whole group. So, I'm going to start with, right here with Jermaine's group and we're going to go around and each person is going to get a turn, or each pair is going to get a turn. So, first, what was your group thinking? How did he feel?
Sad.
Why?
Because the color blue is a sad color. And he looked down [inaudible].
So he had two reasons-- he had the body position, because he's kind of looking down like this and he also he had a connection with what you learned in kindergarten, good job, he said that sad and the color blue go together. What do you guys think? How does he feel?
I think he feels happy. He's smiling and he's playing the guitar.
Okay, because he's creating music. Maybe that's what makes him happy. I heard Miss Webster had a disagreement when they were pairing. Miss Webster, what is your take? What do you think he's feeling? Tell me what you think he is? Sit up, tell me what you think he is.
I think he's sad because...
Okay. Because why? [Inaudible]
He looks what? Say it again, honey. Don't be embarrassed. It's okay to have a different opinion.
I think he is lonely because he doesn't have any friends.
There's nobody else in that picture. He is by himself in the picture. Maybe he's lonely. We don't know. Okay. So, we had a difference of opinion. That's okay. Next pair.
I think he's sad because he's looking down. If he was happy he'd be [inaudible].
Whoa. Wait a minute. She just said this man doesn't have anything to eat. Why do you think he doesn't have any?
Because his shirt is torn, he don't have no pants and he don't have no socks.
So, you're telling me he looks what? Is he rich or is he poor?
No. He's poor.
Okay. That is very good insight on not only the details, but also just what those details are telling us, okay? Do you have something else to add? What would you say?
I said I think he was happy to sit alone. I think he's happy because he just [inaudible]
Okay. So, you think the guitar looks-- even though his clothing looks torn, his guitar looks nice, right? Maybe he just puts a lot of value on keeping it nice. Maybe he puts a lot of value on keeping his guitar nice rather than his clothes. Maybe not. Last pair, tell me what you think he's feeling.
I think he's--
One at a time.
I think he's [inaudible]. ...It looks like he's playing a sad song. He's playing a sad song and he's playing--
Why do you think it looks like he's playing a sad song?
Because he's bowing his head down and his face don't look very happy.
Okay. You guys, next question-- I can see everyone sitting nice and tall in your seat. Did you have something different than that? Okay. Go ahead.
I think he's sad because he looks like he's homeless.
Oh, maybe he's homeless. Now, why do you think he's homeless?
Because his shirt's torn on the side.
Are there any other clues besides his clothing? We already had Miss Marshall tell us about his clothing. What other clues do we have that makes us think he's homeless?
[Inaudible]
...without talking and making noise. Jermaine, do you have a clue why he might be homeless? Why?
Because he's outside by his self.
He looks like me might be outside. This might be a step that he's sitting on. Next question... Next question--what do you think the artist is trying to tell us? What is the important message-- put your hands down. Think. What is the message? Why is the artist painting this picture of this man? I have one person, she's got herself in the thinking posture. She's thinking. Think please. Think, think, think. I've got a good thinker at this table. I hope you're thinking, honey. Okay. Now, pair up. Ready? Pair and share with your table mate. Get paired up. [cross-talk] Thirty more seconds to share. I hear some good talking so I'm giving you 30 more seconds. Why don't you share this time because you shared last time? Okay. So, you're going to share this time. Let's see you sitting up nice and tall. We're going to share with the entire group. We all learn from each other. You guys, we're going to start with the opposite way. I'm going to go this way. Can you tell me what the artist is trying to tell us, by painting this picture-- I'm sorry, just a second. Could you wait until your classmates are showing you the respect you deserve? You guys, when you're listening to what he's saying, he's trying to tell you what he thinks, what his table mate thinks. So, you need to turn your body, make eye contact and really listen to what he's saying, okay? Okay. Go again.
I think the artist did this picture because he wanted kids to know how alone he is and how he's homeless. He doesn't have any money. He doesn't have any value.
Okay. When you mean value, do you mean value like art value or what kind of value do you mean?
Like he seems very sad.
Okay. So, you're talking about the color, right? Okay. Next group.
I think that the artist is trying to persuade him--
Wait a minute. Say that word again. He's trying to what?
Persuade.
Persuade us what? Persuade us to think what?
Persuade us [inaudible] He feels real mad or trying to do music or something.
Okay. Is that what your team came up with? You came up with something different than your team. You had a disagreement, right?
I think that I was not [inaudible].
Do you think the artist wants you to be like him?
No.
What do you think the artist wants you to learn from him?
He won't have nothing to work... [Inaudible].
You can have a better life, right? Okay. This group-- could you put your feet down? It's your turn. You're going to share with us what your team came up with? You can share. Come on. You can talk to us. Remember that there's no wrong answer. It's just what you think.
