Ah, okay. Okay.
Suri does this only happens in vinegar or can it happen in water?
Try it tomorrow. We're going to experiment more with this, okay? This is, can I have your attention up here again? I'm just trying to help you by sharing observations I hear when I go around the room. Somebody had a question and I love questions. They said, does this happen when you put it in water the same way that it happens if you put it in vinegar because I have told you all it's vinegar. If you have questions like that could you please write them on the side so that I know what investigations you'd like to do in the future? So we can, because we're going to be continuing this. Now, once you've made all of your observations, you still have that column like we've had from every little activity today that says, what could be happening. So, let me be more specific. I want you to tell me, again, the title of the lab is, where's the matter? I want you to tell me where that tablet went. I want you to look at your observations. I want you to be specific. And I want you to tell me where's the matter. What happened to the tablet? Okay, in that last column you should only have one box to fill in. Please discuss it with your lab group and write down where it went. What happened to it. And then we'll all discuss it together. (students chatting)
It can do both, can't it? So, you think it turned into a gas. You think it dissolved and turned into a gas okay, so you can absolutely write both. Next thing we're going to talk about is how we prove that. So, if any of you guys have a really quick idea think about how you can do an experiment. Okay, so keep thinking along those lines because you're going to design your experiment for it, okay. I have balloons. I see the word dissolves. I saw the word fizzy and escape. Okay. Alright, I'm going to write down some of these words that I'm seeing. I saw dissolved. I know. I saw escaped. Fizzy was in the same sentence as escaped, but thank you for reminding me. Did you have fizzy separately?
Yeah.
Oh, okay. On your observation sight or what could happen?
Yeah, what could happen.
What could happen, okay.
Blended, okay.
I had gas.
You had chemical reaction?
Bubbles.
Did I pretty much get the kinds of things you think may have happened? Any, any totally different ideas that you think happened? You think it was still...
It became carbon dioxide.
Okay, alright. Alright, focus up here then. Good. I see the same mixture. When I did the first demonstration first thing you said was magic. Then someone said chemical reaction. Dissolved, disappeared, changed, neutralized. I see the same combination of words. Dissolved, escaped, fizzy, blended, vanished, chemical reaction, magic. I just see a little different priority, okay. Now I'm a scientist. I can't really test magic. Can't really test if something was magic. What I can test are the science type words. I can test chemical reaction. I can test blended. I can sort of test fizzy. Escaped, dissolved. These I can test. I can try to figure out a way to determine whether the tablet dissolved or escaped. Or a combination of both. I can figure out if it being fizzy had something to do with it. I can figure out if it was blended in. I can figure out if it was a chemical reaction or I can let you do this. And that's what I'm going to do. On your other half sheet, you should have another half sheet on your table. First thing I need you to do is, in your group, I need you to come to a consensus. That means you guys have got to agree. The first question on there says, okay, where's the disappearing matter? But I asked you to think about it in terms of everything you've seen today. I magically changed clear liquid into pink liquid and then pink liquid back into clear liquid again. You saw a candle magically get shorter and the wick magically disappearing and some black stuff come out of nowhere and you saw an alka-seltzer tablet vanish. Okay. So, your group needs to agree on an overall theory. Where's the disappearing matter? I want you to discuss it and I want you all to write the exact same sentence for where's the disappearing matter at the top of your paper. Okay, so you have to agree.
There was a small piece that I put in right now and the alka-seltzer went up.
So, you know that it goes to the bottom not to the top. Okay. That's a great observation because its very specific. I like it. So, you all need to talk about... Okay so, in every single experiment it turned into a gas? So, the pink liquid turned into a gas? And the white liquid turned into a gas? And when the clear liquid went pink liquid, the wax turned into a gas? I didn't even see it disappear. Oh, when you blew it out you saw smoke, so when you blew it out, the amount of smoke that went off, do you think it was equal to the amount of candle that's missing?
Oh, the liquid was a solid, this is a gas, so...
Tell me about the liquid again. Because I only saw liquid so I keep... (students speaking)
If the pink was less dense than the white. (students speaking)
If the density explained it, have you ever seen liquids that have different densities combined? Have you ever seen oil in water? Okay, so what does it look like when you have two different density liquids? Did you see layers with the... (students speaking)
Where'd the pink stuff go? Disappeared by itself? Okay. So, these are the things you guys have to talk about. You can't just take one person's, you guys gotta make sure you all agree and it has to be an explanation that explains all three events that we saw today. So, when I say where's the disappearing matter, you tell me it turned into a gas. I'm going to say, okay then the pink liquid turned into a gas? I didn't see bubbles. Okay. So, it has to be a sentence that explains it all. You guys aren't talking here. Okay. The disappearing matter is in the liquid. So, you still think the alka-seltzer tablet is in there? (students speaking) Okay, so you think it's in there, but it's now bubbles? Okay. It's in there, but it's now bubbles so it changed in to bubbles and then what about the pink liquid and the clear liquid? You think it's all still in there? Okay, but that time no bubbles, but it's still in there. Okay, so candle. Where did the rest of the wick go? Is it still there? Okay, so you were good for two out of three, but you can't say it's still in there for the candle, so change your sentence. Talk about it. Change your sentence just a little bit. I get that you're saying that. Right. But change your sentence a little bit so it applies to all three events. Okay. What's your sentence that everyone has agreed on?
That matter turns into...
So, you had bubbles in your candle?
No.
Oh, this is supposed to be, to explain all three events we saw today. Okay. This is a good start, but it has to be more general. Where is the disappearing matter in general today? Dissolved is good for this one? Is this one dissolved?
Nope.
Okay, so can you think of something dissolved and melted have in common so you can make it one sentence to explain everything. (student speaking)
Okay, doesn't show up anymore does that mean it's gone?
Okay, that's where you have to agree. You have to agree whether it is gone or not. Okay? Okay, stop for just one second. I talked to a couple of really good groups, but a couple of groups are very stuck because they disagree. I told you you all had to agree and you had to explain all three things. It's like the most difficult thing you can possibly do. He won't listen to you. I hear you. Okay, I'm listening. Here's the thing. In the disagreements I've seen, the disagreement is is it gone or is it not gone? Does that make sense? Okay. Did it go away? Did it disappear or is it still in there? That's the disagreement. Now, I have an idea. What if we, let's pick one experiment, okay. I think for this class, the easiest experiment to deal with would be the tablet. The alka-seltzer and the vinegar, okay. Write that down on that half sheet as the experiment we chose. The experiment, we chose the alka-seltzer. We're going to choose that as a class. What are the materials we put in? (students speaking)
The tablet and the vinegar. Write those down on that left side. It says materials we put in. Do we put in anything else? I didn't trick you, I swear. Okay, so we had vinegar and we had a tablet. What did you see come out?
Bubbles.
We've got bubbles so write those on the right hand side. We've got bubbles. Fizz. He thinks, he's saying he thinks the fizz is carbon dioxide. That's fine. We can call it whatever you want and what some kind of guess and what else? Are you left with anything else? You're still left with some liquid, right? Okay, so write that down. You're left with, you've got bubbles and you're left with bubbly liquid. Here's what I think we need to prove. We need to prove if what we put in is the same as what we got out. How we can tell if something's there if we can't see it in science? Okay, you've got bubbles. What do you think, Nick? We weigh the vinegar and the alka-seltzer tablet  (mumbles) we add the numbers up and then weigh it afterwards and see of the number's the same.
