How do you know? (children chatting over each other) How do you think it might be different? Okay, maybe Ethan goes here (mumbles). Measure yours and let's see. (children chatting over each other) And which one do you think you're going under? (children chatting over each other) I don't know. (children chatting over each other) Okay, all right. (children chatting over each other) Okay, well you all, listen to him, listen to him. (children chatting over each other) You all talk about it. (children chatting over each other) You talk to them, I'm gonna walk around.
It's my turn, EJ. (children chatting over each other)
[Voiceover] Okay, let him do the writing. (children chatting over each other)
Why are you taking them out of that one? (children chatting over each other) Okay, and what are you trying to make it do?
Balance.
Okay, balance. Let's see you trying to make it balance. (children chatting over each other) Okay. (children chatting over each other)
We need to put it right there.
Okay. (children chatting over each other) Did you balance it now? Okay, so what do put in that point? (children chatting over each other)
[Voiceover] I'm going to scoot this just a little it. And then you write it down, good. How did you know it was balanced? Good. (children chatting over each other) You said which one was heavier here? Okay, why did you say (mumbles)? (children chatting over each other) Think you can do that one? How did you know it was balanced? Is it balanced? What about that? (children chatting over each other) At first, which one was balanced? Because why? (children chatting over each other) It was heavy, okay. (children chatting over each other)
Okay, so how many of those are (mumbles)?
I think it was one more. (children chatting over each other) Okay, you're put it in. You'll put what in this one? (children chatting over each other) And the number of crayons you all used. (children chatting over each other) You had another object that was moving? Look right here. You think their eraser didn't move?
[Voiceover] What you all gonna test next? (children chatting over each other) Did you even measure that one? (children chatting over each other)
And I'll come back. Alright, what are you all doing here? (children chatting over each other)
Do you think if you did the scissors, and Matthew did the scissors, do you think it would measure the same?
[Voiceover] Let's do it.
Okay. Let's do it one at a time. What's happening? You guys can't measure, try this one. Here's my question. If Matthew blows the paper clip, is it gonna get the same distance as if you blow the paper clip? What do you think? You don't think so? Why not? (children chatting over each other) Matthew, you blow. (children chatting over each other) Okay, all right, so remember that, okay? Now, Weslee, I want you to test it. You said you thought it would go different. See if you can make a difference. (children chatting over each other)
Yeah, why did it do something different? What's that that you're blowing out?
Air.
Air, and what is it?
Gas.
Gas, good. All right, you all can go ahead and finish measuring. (children chatting over each other) I saw Ella trying. Now, if you and Ella both try to blow on that do you think it's going to move? Why don't you think it's going to move? (children chatting over each other) You think it's too heavy? And you don't have enough breath. (children chatting over each other) Try it and see. See if you all both do it if you can get it to move. (children chatting over each other) You're going red in the face and it's going away. Did you all think it was going to move? You all didn't think it was. (children chatting over each other) How did you find this? What'd you do?
Counted. Okay, counted, and what are you working on right now? (children chatting over each other) The colors. (children chatting over each other) Okay, which one do you have to count now (mumbles)? Which one do you have there? (children chatting over each other) This one, and what is that one? What is that one? A solid, a liquid, or the gas?
Solid.
A solid, how are you going to find out? What are you gonna do?
Look at this.
You're going to look at those, can you count those? I'm gonna come back and see if you counted and made your graph, okay? You're doing good. Okay. Okay, can you come over here and count? You might have to get out of your chair, you have lots of them. (children chatting over each other)
[Voiceover] One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Eight. (children chatting over each other)
Five, six, seven, eight.
Check your numbers, and you checked to make sure. All right, whatcha going to do now?
Tally.
Tally them, okay, think you all can do that? Okay, you need help putting it on (mumbles), remember which one is the total (mumbles). (children chatting over each other) How did you know that so quick? I heard you started counting and then what did you do? You found it quickly. (children chatting over each other) You remembered from that, okay. How else could have known that fast?
Go down there. Go down there, okay, good. (children chatting over each other)
