[Boy in Blue] Isn't it nuclear fission when, like, fusion? No, fusion is when they combine. Nuclear fission is like when they split apart, right?
Yes, so it's a fission process.
[Boy in Blue] See? Ah!
So that's a (mumbles), I see that, that efficient.
[Boy in Blue] Efficient.
It increases the safety though, right?
[Boy in Blue] It's impossible to explain.
No, I'm just saying, does it?
[Boy in Blue] No, I don't understand. Am I the only one here?
Apparently to you, though. (chuckles)
So, why is it that when the atom is unstable it's radioactive?
It could be it's removing protons and neutrons?
I think you guys can discuss this.
[Boy in Blue] Isn't it when like it starts releasing the neutrons to a different atom, or something, and then it gains the neutron, and that's when it starts becoming, like--
More vulnerable--
[Boy in Blue] More vulnerable, and it starts, like, a chain reaction.
[Boy in Blue] You guys agree?
I agree.
[Multiple] I agree.
[Boy in Red] I agree with everybody.
That's right. (chuckles)
[Boy in Blue] So, how can radiation help them? Like Amy said--
It could also help in the electricity and helps us get our resources.
Like you said. (students chuckle)
[Boy in Red] What else though?
Like cancer.
[Voiceover] Cancer?
[Boy in Blue] Cancer.
I mean, I had an aunt that suffered from cancer and it kind of helped her even though she passed away. It kept her longer than it would have been without her having medication.
Any last thoughts? Okay, that's fine, thank you. I have only one major, I guess comment, about that one. I noticed Steve used a lot of vocabulary words. He did remember a lot of the words, and I think he planned for that. And then I liked the way that David actually redirected the group. He asked the group, "How can radiation help us?" right at the end, and then people responded to that. So, he kind of helped redirect the questions for the discussion group. So, and then people were able to respond. So, that was a nice way to create a discussion. Okay, question number two.
[Student] Three.
[Multiple] Three.
I'm sorry. Okay, I mean...
How about number four next?
[Teacher] Okay, I'm going to do number four next.
No!
Do number three. The one with three.
No, I'm going to do four.
No, I want to do three. Okay, number four is going to go next. You have two minutes to prepare. (students chatter) Number four. (students chatter) Just ignore it.
What is that?
[Teacher] A microphone.
Oh, it works? So, they can hear me right now? Oh. (laughs)
It's recording?
[Voiceover] Well, why do you think President Obama might support building nuclear power plants in the USA and what are some arguments for nuclear energy?
[Teacher] David, put that away. (chuckles)
[Teacher] Okay, Jane, who's going to go next?
[Jane] Me.
Jane.
[Teacher] Okay, so which vocabulary and evidence are you going to focus on?
[Jane] Nuclear power plant, nuclear power plant--
[Teacher] Well, pick several.
[Jane] The nuclear, yeah. The nuclear power plant can help us create more energy. I mean, well it's--
Nuclear radiation, for my argument.
[Teacher] You know what Dano was saying?
No.
[Teacher] He was just going to put power plants.
Do you know what it is?
Yeah, it's where they (drowned out by chatter). Yeah.
[Teacher] Okay, what does it do?
Creates energy.
[Teacher] Okay.
[Teacher] Okay, what other evidence are you going to use, though?
The fact that we are running out of, well, we're not running out of, but, in the future we might not be able to find enough energy (drowned out by chatter). So, we need to start. We need to start thinking about the future, like--
Jobs and stuff.
No, future things that are like, the future and what's going to happen and energy and how are we going to have a good supply. Like what if we were running out and start thinking about that?
Okay, so the next person. (students chatter) Okay, so the people on the outside, if you were recording the vocabulary last time, I want the people on the outside to switch so that you're recording something different. So if you did evidence first, switch to vocabulary. If you did vocabulary, switch to evidence.
Oh, Sindi, sit like right here. (students chatter)
Okay, this question is why do you think President Obama might support building nuclear power plants in the U.S., and based on the video we watched, what are some arguments to be made for nuclear energy?
I think President Obama might support building nuclear power plants in the U.S. because it doesn't release chemicals, therefore it's eco-friendly, making the U.S. more green. Environmentally, green.
I agree with her, because another reason I think the president might support it is because, like, like right now we're in an economic crisis, what you call the thing? And then like making new plants may create more jobs for people. It'll create jobs for building them, and then it'll also benefit everybody for clean power.
[Multiple] I agree. (students chuckle)
I agree because it builds economic stabilization, and it'll create jobs for the future, like, for more years, because in order to run a nuclear power plant you need, you know, like, to build it. And once it's built, you still need to work with it so I think the job's going to last for a while.
I agree.
[Boy in Glasses] But if we're in an economic crisis, like if we're in an economic crisis how are you going to pay for it? Like, where's the money going to come from?
Well, we're already in debt, so we'll get even more debt.
[Boy in Glasses] Yeah, it costs a lot to build a nuclear reactor.
We'd get funding.
[Multiple] Yeah.
And we have to, like, think about the future and how it's going to benefit, you know, for the economy and making more power plants would just provide, like, a stable future for the upcoming people and the jobs because it supplies more jobs and stuff.
[Boy in Gray] And more, you know, we'll get more electricity. You know, if we build more nuclear power plants.
Yeah, and not just 20%, but more like the other countries who have 30 and stuff like that--
(mumbles) needs luxuries, rising electricity demands. It won't leave the U.S. behind and all the new tech stuff? (student murmurs)
[Boy in Black Hoodie] And the more factories, and the more power plants we produce, we make, the more electricity and the more factories, it will get more stuff. It will build the more jobs, and that will raise up the economic problems.
Yeah, because more stuff will be done that way.
So, now you guys have given a lot of arguments supporting nuclear energy. What do you think is the biggest problem with nuclear energy that we should be aware of?
The thing that causes cancer.
Probably be the radioactive waste that the nuclear power plants give off. Well, they don't give it off, the water, the coolant or whatever. And then, like, they don't have nowhere to store it. I think it was some cave thingy that they were trying to build, but they didn't build.
[Boy in Black Hoodie] They're going to run out of space to put the waste in. (students talk over each other)
[Boy in Black Hoodie] Also, it's going to cause cancer to everyone.
But doesn't it cure cancer and stuff?
It has benefits, but more like some freak accident can happen, like what happened in Fukushima.
Or the third mile.
At the Three Mile?
Yeah. (students speak over each other)
So, say you never know what can happen, that's the downside. Because if it does happen, then it's like downhill from there because people start getting sick, then their kids start dying, and I don't know.
Yeah, and like Giovanni said, if we are in an economic crisis, like where are we going to get the rest of the money? We're just going to get it from debt and stuff like that. We're going to help raise it up, but we'll also fall more in debt.
Yeah.
Going back to the nuclear waste, can someone elaborate on why is the nuclear waste such a problem?
Because it's just there--
Kevin?
[Kevin] I think nuclear waste will cause more wars and pollution. That's what I think.
[Teacher] Cause more what?
[Kevin] It causes more war and pollution.
[Multiple] War?
[Kevin] Well, I mean. (students chuckle) This isn't on camera, right? (students laugh)
Okay, someone else?
Wait, what was the question again?
Elaborate on what is nuclear waste?
Nuclear waste?
Why is that such a problem for us?
Well, it's a problem because there's nowhere where you could actually safely put it. Other than like, I think they have this, I read something about they have an island where all the waste of nuclear waste goes. That's the only place that you can, like, get rid of it. Don't throw it in the ocean because it'll contaminate everything. You can't just, like, leave it in the ground because then it'll probably like leak.
And also, doesn't it, if it rains, if water gets in it, it's dangerous? So, that's why they have to find a place where it's not like--
Why is it dangerous if water gets into it? (students speak over each other)
Soil, I guess?
[Boy in Black Hoodie] The waste and the water mix and then, like, it runs down into the soil and it might go into the ocean or the sewers and it'll mess up the ocean, or, like, water--
And we end up drinking it.
[Boy in Black Hoodie] And scientists are trying to find ways to get rid of the waste, like they're thinking of shooting it out into space or anything. (students chatter)
One thing nobody talked about was half-life. What does the half-life have to do with nuclear waste?
I think a bunch of years.
[Boy in Black Hoodie] What does it have to do with Obama? (students murmur)
Say it louder.
What?
Say it louder.
We're talking about that noise. (students chuckle)
Wait, what was your question?
What does half-life have to do with nuclear waste?
Half-life, nuclear waste.
So, energy?
So, why is nuclear waste bad exactly?
Oh, because they haven't determined the amount of years of when the half-life is. I think they determined like So they, so it was an estimate. It wasn't actually a fact, they just estimated that, so it could be before, so they wouldn't be able to prevent, to prevent it from affecting society.
Oh, good. So, let's just get this done. Let's try the next group, okay? Thank you. (students chattering)
I know, Bryan.
I don't need to look it up. I know this already.
Okay. Do you guys want to break before you go up? Okay, you guys get one or two minutes to prep yourself.  So it's not a shock (chattering) Okay, question number three, let's come up. People seem anxious, let's do this. (students chattering) Okay, no phone Diana. (students chattering)
We're missing people.
Yeah, we are. Okay, so people on the outside, you guys should switch. So, if you did evidence, you know. So, what you did one time evidence, looking for evidence, and one time you're looking for vocabulary. Okay? So, people on the outside make sure you're checking different parts. Okay, so what, I might change the question, you guys.
What?
It happens. Okay, number three. What recommendations would you make to President Obama regarding clean energy and climate change? So, for example, they're trying to build two nuclear power plants in Georgia. So, what recommendations will you make to him about building in Georgia?
Building in jorj-ee-uh?
Georgia, the state.
Um, I think he should make sure that employees aren't making careless mistakes such as the human error in the Three Mile Island.
[Girl in Black] I think that he should promote programs on alternative energy, but not just nuclear energy. But he could also use nuclear energy because it could, because the field cost and operating cost is low and 20% of our energy already comes from nuclear energy. So, we could just get more energy through nuclear power.
[Boy in Stripes] I think we shouldn't use it because of, it causes harm to people and you never know when an accident happens, and it might hurt the environment and it leads to cancer.
Okay, nuclear energy affects public safety and it creates, nuclear power plants create toxic waste.
[Boy in Stripes] I would still try to build a nuclear power plant because it could also boost our economy when it's most struggling.
[Boy in White] Recommendations I would make to Obama regarding nuclear energy is that, to stop because it's too dangerous to handle, and that if it gets in the hands of terrorists, they can use it to murder, to murder me or destroy countries. We can't prevent natural disasters from destroying nuclear power plants, then the nuclear radiation, which is unstable, can harm by radioactivity, and a nuclear spill has happened in the past with human error that hit Fukushima. And this means that it can happen to anyone, even us. That's what I wrote.
I think it could be a good idea, but I think they should focus more on how it could harm people, to try and control the harmfulness so it won't harm people. Yeah, I think it's a good idea.
I think my recommendation for Obama is that it is not good to (mumbles) nuclear because it's going to affect us, it's going to affect our pollution. And he's going to spend like more energy on that and he can save more money if he didn't do that.
Yeah, I agree with Charlie, too. We don't know what nuclear energy could also, like, harm us, which ways. Or, I mean we do, but I mean, it's better. Like we could just focus on studying more, like, having more thoughts. Like, ask him what's better? It's like to choose nuclear plants or to keep using what we're using now.
So, I have to change one question. Based on all the videos and the articles you guys saw and read, what argument has influenced you the most?
[Boy in White] The Fukushima argument.
So, go ahead and explain it to the group, though.
Because, um, things happen and they just prove to us that they can also happen to us, like human error. And I think they made people evacuate the cities and the damage, the area which is, nobody can go because it's radioactive, and they have to wait for the atoms to decay which is like, I don't know, thousands of years just for the half-life, and we won't be able to use that space anymore. It kills everything. People got cancer.
