[Voiceover] Okay, so tell us a little background about Ed.
Alright, well it showed that he had chest pains and also his vital signs showed that his heart was very weak so we thought he was having a heart attack and also he was unconscious.
[Voiceover] Okay, so because of his complaining of chest pains, be subtle from conscious or no?
He called and he talked to the paramedics, but it also said he was obese and so that could contribute to it as well.
[Voiceover] How do you suppose that contributes to having a cardiac condition?
Generally, it can clog your arteries.
[Voiceover] What can clog your arteries?
The fat that builds up.
[Voiceover] Okay, from being obese?
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Okay, is that one of the, I guess, physical signs that someone may have a heart condition?
Yes.
[Voiceover] Okay, okay, alright. Go ahead.
It is also his blood pressure. It said it's at variable levels, so that means his heart isn't working properly or consistently. So, that means it could also contribute to a circulatory system, it could damage it. It's also another sign of a heart attack.
[Voiceover] Okay, so the variable heart, or actually the variable blood pressure. And some of you had questions about that when you were doing your research. You were wondering what did this variable mean and I think what you said is exactly right, it's not normal, okay. They state the variable meaning, it wasn't working how it should. Okay, so sounds like this guy had some definite issues both with his vital signs and with his history. So, tell us a little bit why you ranked him number one compared to let's say, you ranked, who was your number, hmm? Who was your second, who proceeded him? Nelson. Nelson, so you got Ed ranked over Nelson where some other people had Nelson ranked number one, so, what do you think?
Well, he's unconscious now so that means his heart attack started some time ago and once you have a heart attack you need treatment immediately, and since his heart attacks aren't his title, he needs it. I think it's important to see, to get treatment.
[Voiceover] To get medical care?
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Okay, if he doesn't get treatment what do you think could happen?
Probably, he'll die from the heart attack if he doesn't get treatment or paralyzed.
[Voiceover] What do you mean by paralysis? Why do you think he could become paralyzed?
I'm not sure if it's a stroke or a heart attack if you go through it if you get paralyzed or not.
[Voiceover] Okay, you're not sure if it's a stroke or a heart attack that leads to possible paralysis?
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Anybody like to comment on that? Question, go ahead Jordan.
It's a stroke. It has a brain clot and then that will cause partial, I can't say it.
Paralysis.
Yeah that word, but heart attack. You could have a heart attack after that using different parts, not paralysis.
[Voiceover] Good point. So, Jordan says having a stroke can cause paralysis. What system is being affected when you have a stroke that could lead to paralysis? What system in our body is that?
[Voiceover] Nervous system.
[Voiceover] Yeah, nervous system. Okay, understand? Doban, Jake, got that? Alright, so you guys have Ed, you ranked him number one and then you ranked Nelson number two along with quite a few other people. It looks like we have some consistencies there. Let's look at group B. You had Nelson ranked number one, but then you did have Ed ranked number three. So, you didn't think Ed was as serious having this heart condition compared to Nelson and/or Monique?
Well, Nelson and Monique had the most critical vital signs. They seemed the most, the worst, because their temperatures were in the critical zone and above where they started, so they were overheated and they probably had heatstroke or hyperthermic. So, they were not, and they were dehydrated too. When your body starts to dehydrate that's not, it really messes up all your systems. So they were...
[Voiceover] What systems?
Cardiovascular system, the respiratory system, the immune system, everything's just being attacked here because with Eve, let me see this, his heart rate was way below normal and that's the cardiovascular system. His temperature was completely 109 from all the heat from the canyon.
[Voiceover] What's the normal body temperature for that of a human?
The normal temperature is 98.6 and he's at 109.
[Voiceover] He's at 109 folks. Okay, I think this was one of our hypers if you remember, Nelson and Monique were our two hypers that were airlifted into the hospital, okay? So, he's at 109.
Isn't this like the immune system?
[Voiceover] Mmhmm.
Yeah, so that's the immune system and then his breathing rate is way down. It's at 10 respirations per minute.
[Voiceover] 10 respirations per minute?
And the normal's like 20, so he's down to half. So, I think that his vital signs were way more out of whack.
[Voiceover] Did you count in on the blood pressure?
The blood pressure?
It's really low and that means his circulatory system's not working right which means blood's not getting everywhere it needs to be. Which means he could end up having, I don't actually know if it would lead to a stroke, but like if everything's not getting blood everywhere, his brain might not get enough blood. He could have brain damage or something like that.
[Voiceover] It's interesting she said stroke, talking about Nelson. Was Nelson having any type of nervous system symptoms?
[Voiceover] Seizures.
[Voiceover] It was seizures.
[Voiceover] He was having seizures. Is that, is a seizure an event that occurs as a result of something going wrong with the nervous system? Absolutely. Think about all the systems you just named. What's going on with Nelson? Cardiac, nervous, circulatory, immune.
Dehydration.
Entire (mumbles) bringing in dehydration. Digestive, not enough water. This guy is having a rough time, isn't he? So, if you're pretty confident in why you ranked him number one.
[Voiceover] Yeah.
Okay, comments? Anybody?
Well, the reason we ranked him three was because we thought that he was most likely going to die and so we thought that his daughter was a higher priority because...
[Voiceover] Monique?
Yeah, because she has a better chance of survival.
[Voiceover] So, you ranked him three, and it's interesting you said, "We thought he was going to die." He was maybe beyond that point of help.
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Okay, so why'd you rank him three? Why not rank him seven?
[Voiceover] Well, what if he has a shot?
[Voiceover] He's got a chance.
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Okay, he has a chance over Mark.
That wound to the chest.
[Voiceover] Yeah, because Mark got shot in the chest, didn't he?
You'd save him though.
[Voiceover] It's interesting you said if he has a shot. Mark's the one that got shot. (laughing)
He was more stable than Nelson was though. Mark was.
[Voiceover] Mark was more stable?
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Interesting, you're bringing in the whole fact of, now you're triaging it. You're saying okay, Mark's a little bit more stable even though he's got this gun shot and they were kind of vague in what they said about the gun shot. We don't know what kind of gun it was.
But I feel like if you rank him a three, he's at such a critical position that it's either you rank him one, because he needs treatment right away or he's going to die.
[Voiceover] Okay, so you're saying, he's got to be one, based upon all the symptoms, based upon his vital signs, the condition that he was brought in. If you're not going to rank him one you might as well just let him die. Is that what you're saying?
Or early on. Like, you can't wait too long, I guess.
You've got to rank him one to three, otherwise.
[Voiceover] So he's like, what group were you?
We're F.
[Voiceover] You're F, so you had him, okay you had him at a two.
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Okay, alright,  so you're saying he's a top three?
Yeah, especially.
[Voiceover] You had a hand up.
Oh, I was just agreeing with him. If we thought we had any chance we should be like let's not waste any time to finish this either that or just make him seven.
[Voiceover] Okay, good point. Brian?
Well, were were thinking...
[Voiceover] Speak up a little bit please.
Well, we were thinking that even though he's unconscious and having seizures he was a crooked patient, but compared to like the other ones like Albert or Mark, his symptoms weren't that of like great danger as the others, and even though his body temperature was 109, that could have been because he was going through heat stroke, but now that he's in Asprins they're a cool environment.
[Voiceover] You bring up heatstroke. Why do you think he's going through a heatstroke?
Well, I don't know, because he was unconscious, and they said he was dehydrated and everything. Well dehydration can be due to heatstroke and like I also figured it'd be heatstroke because his daughter...
[Voiceover] Monique.
Yeah, I'm sorry, Monique, it said that she was dizzy and nauseous and if she was in the same environment as Nelson was, then it's more likely that their symptoms are close to each other because if she's going through like nauseous and like dizziness then it's most likely that he is too because they're both in the same environment.
[Voiceover] Very interesting. I want to come back to this point. Ryan you've got your hand up. What were you going to say?
I was just going to say that Monique has the same symptoms for heatstroke.
[Voiceover] You're exactly right. Now my mind instantly goes somewhere here. Jordan, your hand was up first.
I was just going to say that since their temperature's so high, they're probably in shock and always their temperature is almost basically fatal levels, so just putting them, they're going from a really hot environment to a really cold environment. Or really cool compared to where they were. If they'll put them into more shock which can also be fatal, which means they're not exactly just because they're in a hospital, doesn't mean they're necessarily going to get better right away.
[Voiceover] Okay, obviously they need some treatment. You don't want to go from one extreme to the other, but do you agree that they need to be cooled down quite a bit?
Yeah.
[Voiceover] They need to get cooled down and what else do they need?
Water.
[Voiceover] Water, lots of water, correct? Yes?
You can't really say that Monique's symptoms can apply for Albert too because Monique was having like an allergic reaction to the bee sting. So, that's probably what most of the symptoms are from.
[Voiceover] We forgot about the bee sting. It says she's dizzy, nauseousness, has cracked lips, is having difficulty breathing, has a rash on her legs and stomach. Okay, she got stung by a bee.
Like, you were saying, the reason we put Monique as number one besides experiencing possible heatstroke, we also have her experiencing a very bad allergic reaction to the bee. It shows here that with the difficulty breathing, the bee sting, her body is having a very poor reaction to the bee sting and that if left untreated for longer times without getting pills and stuff like that or EpiPen.
Getting what?
[Voiceover] EpiPen.
[Voiceover] You know what it is?
[Voiceover] Just say EpiPen.
[Voiceover] EpiPen, yeah. Epinephrine.
Epinephrine.
Yes.
It should elevate them in the  largest sense where she could potentially have life threatening without her entire like, respiratory system is closing off, she loses her breathing possibly.
Absolutely, she's having the preliminary signs of an allergic reaction here. Here's where my thought went and I said we'd come back to this point. Maybe Sean, you were going to comment or somebody else. They're both out in the wilderness, this canyon, they're both having heatstroke symptoms. Actually, Monique got stung by the bee, she's having separate issues there. You don't see anything else different about these two individuals? Sean.
One got to stay put for a long period of time and assured a maybe cooler spot while the other still had to keep going up through the sun and the heat to try to get to the top.
[Voiceover] Do you think that would have a difference in their physical?
One gets to rest while the other still has to keep going and going and going another what, third of the way.
[Voiceover] Excellent point, you know. What's the other issue between these two? Jack, you know?
Well like, they're both in the same environment and they both have symptoms of heatstroke, but Monique got stung by a bee and at the same time Nelson has no signs of any external trauma or anything that happened to him that caused the symptoms. So, it could have even been a seizure or a stroke made him lose consciousness and causes a temperature to rise so high is because he was probably thinking that there was something off.
[Voiceover] Interesting, interesting. Yes?
Would it be their age?
[Voiceover] Age, excellent. Look at the difference in their age. How old's Monique?
18.
Yeah, she's 18. Nelson, the dad right? He's 51. I'm not saying 51 is old, but there's a big difference between 18 and 51, plus the fact you add in what Sean said, he's got to hike out of this canyon, he's going to try to find help, right? Is he having to expend a lot more energy?
Yeah.
And he's got to go uphill.
He's go to go uphill, yeah. It's hot, he's got no water, he's got to go uphill, he's losing, basically, control of his body. No energy, no water. Erin?
And that's why we had Nelson as number one and then Monique would go second because they both had like the heat problem, but Nelson was having, it was much more severe with him because of his age and everything. And Monique, she was sitting there for three hours after being stung by a bee, so it wasn't like, so we put her close up to the top because there was, she's already been waiting for long enough. She needs to get help like right away because she was sitting in the shade waiting for hours while her dad had to go struggle up the top of the canyon. So, they were in a really bad situation and they just needed help immediately because they'd been struggling long enough.
[Voiceover] Absolutely. What?
During our discussion we were kind of using...
[Voiceover] Speak up a little bit, sorry.
Okay so, during when we were discussing the age, we were thinking also Monique but...
[Voiceover] Which group were you real quick?
E.
[Voiceover] You were E, okay.
So, like what we thought was that since Monique is 18 years old, verses Nelson is a 51 year old, well like, it makes sense that Monique has a stronger immune system because she's more young and she has more nutrients in her body whereas Nelson could be different, but we don't know if he has any diseases like diabetes or high blood pressure. It doesn't show, but I'm just saying in general. We were writing specific about his other health because I wrote that down.
[Voiceover] Age related diseases.
[Voiceover] Age related diseases, yeah. So, we're missing some medical history.
Yeah, so it's possible there because he's older and because his immune system isn't as strong as Monique's is, we have to like, or doctors have to like protect them with treatment more early because his immune system is much more weak compared to his daughter's.
[Voiceover] Absolutely. As doctors, medical history is so important. It's so important in the triage process and we've been through this folks. You know, you go to the doctor's office, you go into the hospital, you know, in addition to while they're taking your vital signs, what are they asking? What are they asking when you go in?
Medical history.
[Voiceover] Oswell?
Have you had any previous stuff?
[Voiceover] What's stuff mean?
Like surgery, so like problems.
[Voiceover] Okay, other medical conditions.
Yeah.
[Voiceover] Okay, what's another question they ask? Very simple.
[Voiceover] Has it ever happened before?
[Voiceover] Has it happened before?
[Voiceover] Is it hereditary?
[Voiceover] Could it be hereditary, what's your family's history? And I think that's what Brian, you were relating to back there. What are you here for today? Okay, let's look back in the chart, should I?
At this moment when he comes into the hospital, he's obviously not having symptoms of having high blood pressure in the past and high blood pressure might have actually helped.
[Voiceover] Oh, so you're asking about, you're referring to Nelson?
Yeah, because if he had high blood pressure then that might have actually helped keep his blood pressure up to normal if it went down severely because of what happened in the canyon. But because it's so low, I would guess that he doesn't have a history of high blood pressure.
[Voiceover] Okay, you might want to disagree with that and take history out of it. Blood pressure is obviously low. I think we addressed this a second ago. Why do you think it's low? Sarah?
Because everything else that's going on, it's also affecting blood pressure.
[Voiceover] Yeah, I think, I truly believe with the limited amount of information we have, I truly believe that because of the dehydration, the heatstroke, the no energy, no nutrients, I literally think this entire body, all the systems...
[Voiceover] Shutting down? Shutting down. I really do think that. But it's a good point that you bring up because his blood pressure's 85 over 50. Does anybody, has anybody ever taken their blood pressure before? Okay, 85 over 50, that's low. I mean that gets to borderline point where, you know, you're dizzy, I mean you could have an episode because that pressure of your blood going through the circulatory system, it's not high enough. I mean that gets borderline, with instead of having to take medicines for high blood pressure, you got to take medicines to bring your blood pressure up. I think his body's just shutting down and you bring up a good point, but I think in this case just with everything else going on, I think his body's just shutting down. Okay.
Honestly on the side of that, besides you were saying like high blood pressure could actually help. During the scenario that he's in, high blood pressure like with it's problems that it could cause with it's possible weakens the heart, could have actually killed him during the long, extended time of trying to get to the paramedics. That was due to the fact that the high blood pressure has the (mumbles) of hurting muscles at a much different rate than most people. That this test could have possibly failed during the time to get to a paramedic without (mumbles). And plus even had he survived the high blood pressure and got on the top, the shut down of major systems in his body would have still caused the blood pressure to get down so that there's no possible low levels that could even cause problems.
True, yeah Blythe?
Like on the graphs, I feel like there's Nelson, his blood pressure and the blood pressure of Elders was like similar because it was 80 over 50 whereas Nelson was 85 over 50. But we just talked about how like, Nelson's blood pressure could be low and this other instance it might not be, but with Elder he has a head injury and...
