Anybody tell me how much cases usually run? [Background Chatter]
At Radio Shack, they're 30 dollars.
Okay, you know what? So we'll factor that in in a minute. But Alex, you had your hand raised. So I'd like to hear from you.
I was just gonna say that the 199, tax is gonna come in anyway, so [inaudible]
What if you got a deal about it that paid the tax and shipping? [Background Chatter]
Okay, hold up. Cynthia.
But even though... Even though if you use 12, you're only gonna have a couple dollars left over. With the economy these days, things are not cheap. So you can't buy something with five dollars. You're not gonna get a case for that cheap.
That's probably right. [Background Chatter]
I'm gonna hear two more of you, and then I have something I wanna drop into this conversation that several of you talked about, and I think is really important to point out. So I wanna hear what you two have to say, and then I'm gonna go back to something several of you kinda mentioned. Go ahead.
It's better to have more money than less money because if you exactly calculate it to... then you'd still have zero dollars left, but it's better to have equal or more money.
Okay, that's, you know I think you're right. That seems like it just makes sense, right? And one more, yeah.
Actually, when I bought my phone, I got a case just for about five dollars on ebay.
Ebay, so you got a used one?
And it paid for shipping, so I didn't, yes I did.
Okay well you know what? I wanna talk about that because that's actually what you guys just said is really important, and several of you others mentioned it. Maybe we don't want, maybe I don't want to have the exactly the price, maybe I want to have at least... And if I say I wanna have at least 200 dollars, is there a way to say at least with math symbols? To make that equation change so it says least. 'Cause right now, it says equal. Is there a way to do it so it says at least? Colin?
If you, you need to get the iPhone and the case in the same shipping order, or else it's gonna cost more for shipping.
Oh okay. So yeah, I need at least a certain amount.
Yeah. So you're gonna [inaudible].
Wanna jump in on that, guys?
You need to put the greater than or equal to sign.
But what does that look like?
The greater than sign with a line under it.
Okay. And what's the word in English that we have for that symbol? Yeah, say it again, Alexis.
That least.
It is. So now, how much do I need to save to get at least 200 dollars, right? So it's okay if I have exactly or more than. So that kinda talks about what you guys are talking about. Maybe I need more money, if she wants more, more than just a phone. I'm sure she does, right?
With the... [inaudible] What about the [inaudible] just come with the phone. Just that, or does it come with something else? Like a... Charger, battery, or even a case itself.
So again you're saying I need at least 200 dollars, right? Depending on what comes with the phone.
[inaudible] like a Christmas special? Like half off or something? [Background Chatter]
What you can... Also think is where you gonna buy it? And where is there's no tax and stuff? So, it depends on where you're gonna buy it. If you want no tax, that means like on Ebay or something, but... [inaudible] It might be 50 percent off and stuff like that.
Okay, interesting.
I'm just saying, it depends where you're gonna buy your phone.
Okay, no, I like that a lot.
When I was doing my equation, I got 121. So you would still have a dollar left over. And you know how Cassidy said that she can get it on Ebay, that much. Most people, they... I understand that it's cheap, and most people want it like that, but I bought stuff off the line before, and some of the stuff does work good, and some of 'em you drop them and it breaks. So, it's not always good.
Somethin' to pay attention to. All right, I'm gonna change the conversation a little bit because I think you guys are doing really really well. Let's go with what you guys said and say I need at least 200 dollars. If that's true, is there any way to find out, or to answer the original question, which Nick brought up. How much money do I need to save each day based on what we have so far? Where do I go from here?
There is a way to solve it. You grab 200 dollars, and then you subtract 80 from it.
Okay, I'm gonna stop you right there. I don't mean to interrupt. Katherine, you're watching this and I saw your paper, what do you think about what Najeem just said?
Like [inaudible]
Okay, and why is that?
I don't know. That's how you solve it in equality.
Okay, so can you repeat what you said?
You subtract 80 from both sides.
Okay. I'm gonna go ahead and do that right now. And what does that leave us with?
120.
And you know what, I have a question. What does that 120 represent? I mean, if 200 is how much the phone costs, what's 120 about? I'm not sure.
How much you need to raise, until then.
Okay, okay. And Nayanna? Can you comment on what you think might be the next step?
Divide 12 from 120.
Again.
Divide 12 from 120.
Okay. And, somebody else, jump in.
The answer was [inaudible]. The answer would be 10 because 12 and 120 equals 10.
Okay, and Katie you were ready to say something. What would you say?
I was about to say [inaudible].
Equals 10. X equals 10 and-- [Background Chatter]
X equals at least 10.
Oh, it was so you're not liking what I wrote over here, Alexis.
At least 'cause you have to keep the [inaudible] all the way down.
Okay, Katherine, what do you think?
I agree with Alexis because... it can't just like change, because...
When you say it can't change, what do you mean?
the side.
Oh [laughs] Okay, that's good [laughs]. I didn't know what it was I'm just asking.
And then you have to put what X means. [Background Chatter]
Oh, Oh. Oh, so what is the label? What are the units we're talkin' about? [Background Chatter] Ah.
[inaudible] the blue tooth. If you wanna have a little extra money, you could have more, and plus, if you get a little extra money one day, but you have the same another, and you get a little less the next day, you could raise up for another day.
Oh, like if I'm going to collect cans and I don't collect as many cans one day, but I collect extra the next day.
Yeah, like that.
Nayanna, you had your hand raised.
When you have to add 40 to 200, for the Bluetooth.
Ah, that's an interesting idea. So maybe we, so tell me what to write. Instead of this, how would you change this to incorporate what you just said?
80 plus X equals 240.
Okay, are you pleased, are you okay with that?
I disagree.
Cynthia.
I disagree with your answer on that one. I don't agree that it's 10 because if like they were saying earlier if you wanted some extra money, you would... You should... You should do 11 for a day because if you do you'll get 132, and then you'll have extra money.
Okay. [Background Chatter]
But that's the problem [inaudible].
What do you mean when you say it's not asking?
Well, it's not asking for extra money, or anything, it's just asking how many... How much money you need per day. [Background Chatter]
Anthony, I noticed you've got some stuff written down. What do you think about... I wanna go back to what Nayanna said. She says she's gonna change the equation here, and she put 240 up there, why? Why did she do that, and do you agree with that?
Yeah, 'cause then you would have a little extra money left.
A little bit.
You would have a little bit of extra money left.
Okay.
[inaudible] like the Bluetooth in the case, maybe?
Okay.
Isn't this another problem? Another problem [inaudible] not a part of this one yet?
Yeah, 'cause they're not asking how much extra money do you need. This problem, this question's not asking how much extra do you need for a Bluetooth, also.
Okay.
How much are the phone and Bluetooth, it's just asking for the phone.
Okay. [Background Chatter]
I think because... The question wasn't asking to bring extra money into it. We just brought the extra money to round the, make the equation easier and round the and extra money is okay, but we shouldn't change the equation. 'Cause it's not asking you to.
Okay.
This question isn't saying anything about case or a Bluetooth yet, it's a yes question. And this question talks about Bluetooth.
Okay, so what I kinda like is you guys were doin' this problem, and a couple of ya jumped ahead to this problem, which is no problem at all. Let's jump ahead just for a minute and assume that I did want to get the Bluetooth. Would this be the equation to represent? And before I answer this question, what I would like to do, I'm gonna call on Olivia, and then I'm gonna have everybody switch so the pilots go back to the co-pilots, and the pilots come up, but not yet. Let's hear what Olivia has to say.
Would it be [inaudible] equals 12 X, if you wanted to get it before Christmas? Or would it be after?
One more time, I could barely hear ya.
Would we still get that before Christmas, or would it be after?
Before, before.
So would it be 12?
Comments on that?
I agree with that. [Background Chatter]
Thumbs up if you think 12, thumbs down if you think no, we don't need 12 on this one. Okay, Adrian, you have something?
We need to know how much money you earned each day.
Well that's... What do you guys think about that question?
Well that's what we're finding out right now.
I know, but how much you earn. That's how much he has to save.
Pilots, switch with somebody in the back. [Background Chatter] All right, here we go. So now, I have a question for you. Can everybody turn around for just a minute please? Thank you. Question for you. If I wanted to graph our first solution on a number line, what might that graph look like? So will you guys agree that okay, we need to earn a minimum amount. And at least 10 dollars a day, but if I wanted to graph that, put that on a number line represent that graphically, what would that look like?
It would be like a... It would be [inaudible]. But the circle... [inaudible]
What kind of circle? I didn't hear you.
Shaded.
So you want to put this up here?
Yeah. [inaudible]
Amarra, I'd like to hear your opinion on that.
I don't, I never understood the shaded thing. I don't know why it's shaded.
It's shaded because it's not, I think if it's not shaded it means greater than, I mean greater or less than. But when it's shaded I think [inaudible]. It means equal to or less than or... With.
Okay, Tara, do you wanna contribute to that [inaudible]
Well, whenever it says greater than, or equal to, the dotted means it could be 10 because it could be equal to, or greater than, which is over 10. But greater than or less than can't be that number so it has to be open circle. And than greater than or equal to.
Anybody have an example of a problem or words that we would use to put an open circle, unshaded circle? In real life, what might we say for something to represent an unshaded circle?
Go ahead, Al.
Fewer than 14 students have mechanical pencils.
A little louder.
I got fewer than 14 students have mechanical pencils.
So in that problem, could 14 students have mechanical pencils, if you have fewer than 14?
No.
So that would be unshaded. 'Cause 14 doesn't count. So in this question, Amarra, the least number of money I should save per day is how much?
I think 10 is a good answer. because it does go into the number.
And so would be shaded or unshaded?
Shaded.
Oh, is that the only number amount of money I should save each day? Is that it? Are their other possibilities out?
Yeah, you could do--
