A prediction on the weather temperatures.
Okay so maybe they can predict something that's going to happen.
Yes.
[Teacher] Okay. So, based on the information that you collected is there any information, let's say you could go out the next day. What do you think, based on what you saw, what do you think might happen the next day?
It might go back down into the 30s or the 20s.
[Teacher] Okay, and what makes you say that?
Because there's more 30s and 20s then there are 50s and 40s. And, then there was a large spike so.
[Teacher] Okay, so it got warmer. But you're saying because most of them were cooler, it might get cooler again?
Yes.
Okay, so you're making a conclusion. You're using your data to support that. Shaun, what are you thinking?
I was thinking that maybe they might want to track it, because maybe weather can, not evolve over time, but how much it's changing and predict what's gonna happen.
Okay, so you're thinking like a meteorologist or a scientist might make a forecast, make a prediction, so you're thinking sort of like Hava. And were your temperatures similar to her, or were they very different? because you might have been at two different stations. What do you think might happen on the next day?
I think it will drop down to the 30s, because I see that it's dropping down, it's going up, and then it's dropping down. I think it's gonna go up and then drop down again.
Okay, and it does look like you had kind of a trend here. So, what do you think if you had a day that went down, do you think it might go up again?
Mhm.
Might peak up again? Okay. Is there anybody else who's looking at their data thinking of what else might happen with that temperature change? Madison, are you looking at something? Yeah, what do you think?
Well, with the wind speed and it would be like 8.5 for quite a few times a day. Sort of shot up into
So what do you think that was indicating?
That it was a very windy day.
A very windy day, okay. So you guys, some of you look at your charts if you were, Madison was in Group A, and can you make a connection, or H. Madison, can you make a connection to your wind speed really spiked. On that same day did you have any difference, or did you have something happen in your temperature?
Well, the temperature was about 20 degrees and because of the wind was making it cooler.
Okay, so you're saying that you think that the wind also has an effect on the temperature?
Mhm.
Okay, so was there anybody else in Group H that recorded that sort of thing? You had a big windy gust, you had a very windy day, your temperatures went down? Did you have a similar thing happen to you Hava?
Yes.
Yes, okay. So you guys, why would we want to track something like not only temperature, but also the wind speed? Jada?
So that they can know what tomorrow's gonna be like, or what another day's gonna be like. Or for them to know if it's gonna rain or,
[Teacher] Okay.
What the temperature is gonna do.
So they want to think maybe more, you guys now your thinking, Jada, you're even putting together precipitation? So maybe there's a consequence of precipitation?
No, with low temperature and maybe heat can evaporate some water and then the next day it can get dropped down and get colder.
Okay, so maybe a connection with the precipitation, temperature, those sorts of things. Okay, Katie O. What are you thinking?
I would think that they wouldn't just want to track the temperature, but they'd also do the wind speed because wind speed can change how, what the temperature is, and how it changes.
So why do you think wind speed makes a difference with temperature? What are you making the connection with? What's your evidence?
Well wind speed I think would change like it wouldn't make it warmer, it would make the temperature feel colder.
Okay.  So why do you think that?
Because the wind...
Well you go out to the playground a lot, right?
Yeah.
And when you guys are on the playground and it's really windy, is it warm?
No.
Okay, so maybe are you thinking like when you go out there and it's really windy and you don't have a coat, does it feel cooler to you?
Yes.
Does it on sometimes?
Yeah.
[Teacher] Alright, so maybe they're maybe a prediction. And so you were saying they, so are you thinking scientists and meteorologists are trying to put those two together, those phenomenons?
Yeah.
Okay, so Katie O, let me ask you, if this was a hypothesis that you were saying, if it's windier, then it may be cooler. You guys agree as a class? Okay thumps up, thumbs down, what do you guys think? Yes, no, maybe, a little bit there? Alright, Josh, what are you thinking?
I was saying that if people are always looking at the temperature so we know what's gonna happen, when it's gonna happen, what we can expect, what we need to do.
Okay.  So we're taking that forecast even further maybe? So let me kind of pose another question real quick before I keep going you guys. Let me ask you, you guys remember when you went on the computer and you watched the hurricanes? And you tracked the hurricanes? So was that data indicating the speed or the movement of the hurricane?
Yes.
Yes? So, does a meteorologist even track something like that to be able to maybe help people?
Yes. Okay.  So do you guys remember when the meteorologist came to visit us? You guys remember that? And he really talked to us a lot about tornadoes, didn't he? But, he was also giving us situations of how we know a tornado might be forming, right? So, yeah, does that make sense, that that might be another reason that they start tracking? So think and talk to your shoulder partner. Besides a hurricane, what else might they track to, like Josh was saying, to prepare us for, to let us know. So talk to your shoulder partner. [Background Chatter]
The weather because some people can know what to like my hands.
Yeah, or like tornadoes.
Yeah, or maybe even thunderstorms.
Or the normal weather. Very intense temperatures, we can already know.
Maybe even like snow, because that can be a really heavy and or kind of get everywhere like snowbound us.
Or it could like be rain, snow, hail. [Background Chatter]
[Teacher] So what do you think Emily, what else can we determine? [Background Chatter]
Snow storm. Or a tornado.
Or a earthquake.
So what were you thinking first Alexis, and then we'll come back to Nick?
I was thinking either a tornado or blizzard snowstorm.
Okay.  So what kind of weather do you think they're tracking in order for us to be prepared about weather. What do we?
Wind.
Wind, maybe.
And temperature.
Snow.
[Teacher] Okay, so if we're looking for just a tornado, maybe temperature, maybe the wind.
Yeah, what kind of wind is it, is it cold or hot, yeah.
Okay, hot and cold fronts. And then we were thinking about, what else Nick?
I would say a flood because maybe maybe the clouds are coming and there's going to be a bunch of rain. Like you said, that we could get a flash flood.
Okay.  So and are you making that connection to maybe our area that had a fire, and so we have to think about would there be, because it can't absorb the moisture. Okay, so that's another idea. So how would meteorologist or scientists, how would they Austin, how would they predict maybe a flood happening? What do you think they'd use? What kind of information would they be looking at?
Well if a rainstorm was coming, because that rain would cause a flood.
[Teacher] Okay, so a large amount of rain, that would make sense yes.
Or snow.
Or even if we had a lot of snow. So if we had large amounts of snow, what could we possibly be warning people of, if that was the case? Alexis, what do you think?
Stay inside or wear warm clothes if you go somewhere or something so they don't get so cold.
[Teacher] Okay, so would you guys say, would one of you formulate some sort of a hypothesis about snow coming if there was?
If there was enough cold air. And some times when it's raining it starts to hail, and then it starts to, sometimes it starts to snow.
So, if there's cold weather and clouds, then we might have consequences.
Snow, or rain, or yeah.
[Teacher] of hail, or heavy snow?
Yeah.
[Teacher] Okay, so we'd wanna keep that in mind. And does that seem to happen in our areas?
Sometimes.
[Teacher] Sometimes. And sometimes when we make that forecast, and then maybe it doesn't come.
That happened on Saturday.
[Teacher] Okay, so if it does come, what happened on Saturday, Austin?
I think it was really humid out at first,
[Teacher] Mhm.
And then, it started to rain, and then a lot of times usually rain starts out as ice and then it melts. And it started to get colder and then it started to hail.
[Teacher] So then we have the consequences of a hailstorm. Didn't last Saturday, did it start out really nice first?
Yeah.
Yeah, and then also happened yesterday too, because when I got picked up it was nice and warm and everything. And then when I got to my house it was all windy, and then it started raining. So I was like, I thought it was supposed to be hot today.
Right. So is it possible to use forecasting information and still be wrong?
Yes. [Background Chatter]
Well in the weather book, it explains the rating of tornadoes. So I'm thinking tornadoes, or something to track like the wind speed if it's gets too crazy, it get like wind miles per hour, and how bad it is. Like if the wind speed's really high, then it can cause a tornado. Like the scale. [Background Chatter]
So they use that information. We were just talking and showing the things that they might be using for information that they're collecting to do what now? To give to the what?
They're doing it to give us warnings. They can't tell us that a tornado's happening prior to it,
[Teacher] Right.
So they have to warn us about them. And so I think they collect the data from that to do that.
Okay, and then Reagan, what were you connecting that with?
I was connecting it with a blizzard or snow storm, because if there's a delay and you need to go somewhere, you can know that there might be delays. And if you're gonna go outside you need to wear a coat, a heavy coat.
Okay, so how do we respond, how do we react to it, good. Okay, you guys I was going around, and I heard some excellent conversations. And so I think you guys made strong connections with your data. And probably with your meteorologist visit, what they were telling you, and how you were putting that information together. So I want you guys to go ahead and pick up your pencils. And write underneath your graphs, I want you to answer this question. What does your data tell you? So write there on underneath your graph, or write on your graph, you could even write right in the middle of your graph, I want you to write what is your graph actually telling you? So is it telling you that you had a series of cold days? Make your prediction. So go ahead and take a minute or two, write down what your data tells you and then what changes did you observe? What was the most significant change that you observed? If at all possible, while you're writing that, you can come up with a hypothesis about your data. It could either be your wind speed, or it could be your temperature. Write down what it is that actually took place. Yeah, you want to answer the question, what does your data tell you? What changes did you observe? On either graph or you can even write a sentence that combines the two of them together.
So mine says, I added a little more. It says, it is telling me all about my wind speed, and how it's going high or low, or high. What does your say Austin?
Mine is, it had cold and hot days. And it went from 44 degrees Fahrenheit to 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
[Teacher] So go ahead, just like Alexis and Austin shared, go ahead and share with your face partner this time, so that you change who you're talking to. So Emily and Madison, you can also share what you wrote.
It tells me that some times it can be hot, and then go down to a little bit colder, and then it goes back into hot.
Yeah, that's what I was kinda saying when I told the wind speed, because it's not always wind speed. Yeah, it's not always wind speed, but most of the time when we took it, it was mostly in the winter so it would mostly go down. Like, it was 40, then it was 25, then it was 20, and then it was 30, and then it was 30, and then it was 40, and then it was 50. So, that's what.
[Teacher] So John what did you figure out from your data?
I figured out that it was colder the week we were doing this.
[Teacher] Okay.
And the wind speed was not very high.
[Teacher] Okay, oh yeah, yeah. So you were in an area that maybe was more protected by the wind, do you think?
Yeah, we were behind the building.
[Teacher] Oh okay, so that might of had an effect too?
Yeah.
[Teacher] Okay, did you draw any conclusions from that?
I forgot to do that.
Okay, great. Braden, tell us a little bit about what you observed from your data?
Well, I observed that I did not get much wind speed.
Okay, so where was your station? Were you at a protected area as well?
Yes.
Okay, so that definitely had an effect, didn't it?
Yes.
So as a meteorologist, would you want to be able to put your anemometers somewhere where you know you're gonna catch the wind?
Yep.
[Teacher] Okay, so that was a really important lesson right there, too. So what about your thermometer readings, since those weren't dependent necessarily on being protected from the wind. What can you observe from your thermometer reading?
Well, that it was and then on Tuesday and Wednesday it got colder.
Okay, so it got colder on Tuesday and Wednesday. So if you were making a prediction, what do you think would happen on this day, based on your data? Do you think it's gonna change, stay the same, what do you think?
Stay the same.
Seems like it's gonna stay the same, because you have that pretty consistently?
Yeah.
[Teacher] Okay, alright. Tariq, what do you find from your data? What did you discover observing?
I noticed that for my temperature I had up and down weather.
[Teacher] So your temperature was, would you say it was fluctuating?
Yeah.
[Teacher] Okay, why do you think that was happening?
Because, well it was cold on the days we went out, but where we were the sun was kind of coming towards us, at the times we went out.
[Teacher] So do you think that had an effect on your thermometer as well?
Yeah.
[Teacher] Hm, okay so then that's another thing as a meteorologist, you might want to think about where your thermometer is, right? Are you just getting straight sun? Okay, was there something else you were gonna say about your wind speed?
Well, my wind speed. On Monday we got a lot. And on Thursday we got a lot. On the other two days we didn't get any wind.
[Teacher] Not too much, okay.
Then.
Then I also had,
[Teacher] Go ahead.
All three of us were in the same group.
[Teacher] You were in the same group, alright. So there you go.
And, I also had to say that my wind speed was never below 20 degrees.
[Teacher] You to pull out your sheet, right there that you have about your temperature on the moon. I want to ask you one more question. And I want you to think about your temperature on the moon. Now did you actually go to the moon to get your data?
No.
No, but let's look at the scientists who recorded that data. Why was it important for them to find out the temperature on the moon? And as you look at it, did it change very much? So why was it important and did it change very much? Okay, Jaime.
I thought that on one of the missions that it was different temperatures. Like it would be and then it dropped down to about 200.
Okay, and so you're specifically talking about the day?
Yeah.
[Teacher] Okay. And so you're saying is it pretty similar? Is that you're saying?
Pretty similar, but not very.
Okay, so.
The main thing is that it didn't stay the same.
Okay, it didn't seem to stay the same.
No.
[Teacher] Okay. And then we had, not only day temperature, but was the other temperature that we looked at on the moon?
Night.
Nighttime, okay. So what were you thinking about that Shaun?
I kind of had the same data as Jamie did.
[Teacher] Okay.
Because it switched every single mission. So on mission 11 it was well 200 and about 13 degrees.
[Teacher] Okay.
And it just kept on going down and up each mission. So it changed significantly each mission.
