Work of art in front of the class using the smart board.
We have to--
Continue working please.
We have to finish the whole thing today?
You should have enough time if y'all aren't drawing on the artwork that much. But y'all been working hard and a little bit of playing, but working pretty well. After you get finished with the analysis, go ahead and flip over and start on your interpretation. What you think is going on or what the artist is trying to portray in the work of art. All right, so y'all are on interpretation?
Yeah.
What do y'all think of the work of art? Kaitlin, what do you think of the work of art?
Well, it makes us feel like calm.
It made me feel calm.
It made y'all feel calm?
No, it made me feel calm.
It made me feel calm.
Okay. Now have any of y'all been out west?
Huh?
Out west like Colorado, Wyoming, places like that?
Yeah. Yeah.
Well, sometimes in the mountains, they have places where the snow has melted and there are actually small lakes or ponds up inside the mountains. So you could actually either be looking at a lake where you could drive up to or something that's hidden in the mountains. So if you're calm, that's a pretty good idea. All right, guys, what are y'all working on now.
We're on judging the building. I keep working on one.
Okay. Can you tell me what you have about interpretation?
I think of this art as a rainy day. The sky is a dull gray.
I like the bright colors on the doors.
It's like a mixture of happiness and boredom. Since it looks like it's raining, the dark clouds at the top of the painting when it goes from white to dark.
Like from light and it's going to dark, that's when you can tell it's about to rain.
Okay, gotcha, gotcha. Sounds good.
That, sir, is my interpretation.
Okay, and with judgment, what are y'all think about the work of art right now?
My judgment of the art is that it's kind of a boring day. It's slightly dull but you don't know what's about to happen.
Sounds good so far. Keep working. Y'all doing all right over here?
Yeah, we're doing...
I wrote my opinion. Now he's gonna write his opinion.
Yeah.
And then Brody will write his opinion? Sounds great.
All right. Y'all on interpretation. What y'all had? Oh, y'all are each doing interpretation?
Yes, sir. We were going to do that for judgment and interpretation.
Sounds great. And what are y'all looking at now for interpretation with the subway painting?
We're doing what it makes you feel.
Okay, what do you have so far?
Well, he wrote most of them.
Okay, so he can read it?
Okay, actually it makes me feel like traveling...
Okay.
...since they're on a train. And that's pretty much it.
All right. Who would like to tell me what they are thinking of for interpretation on valley flowers?
I don't know. I mean, it's a good painting but it's not really my favorite.
Okay.
It's not very exciting.
So that would be for judgment? You don't find it exciting? Okay, kind of boring. What do you think of the work of art?
I think it's a bit dull because there's not really any colors or anything like that, and it's got the same colors where each... Right here is green, and right here is orange, and blues back there.
You know, if I was using my imagination, I would think of maybe The Incredibles in where the mole men came up at the end and were taking over the Earth. So these could be tunnel boring machines.
