[Teacher] Please freeze for a moment. Gentlemen, what did you think about your performance? I wouldn't say "terrible," but were you accurately on pitch, all of you?
No.
No. Like as soon as the ladies came in, you were like, "Whoo," and then you forgot what you were singing. Okay? So, don't let them distract you. They're trying. They're trying to have this beautiful sound and pull you off. But hold firm, men. Hold firm to your position.  All right? Let's try it again. Here we go. ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ Lock it in. ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ Two parts. ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ Together. ♪ Sing we all noel!♪ The support! ♪ Sing we all noel!♪
Two parts. ♪ Sing we all noel! Sing we all noel! ♪ Back to the beginning. ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ End song. All right. If you were going to give yourself a grade, what would you give it, Alison? As a class.
[Alison] Like out of A's and B's and C's?
Yep.
I would give an A-minus.
Okay, and why the minus? What do you think we think need to improve?
The pitch was kind of off at some parts.
Okay. So there was maybe some pitch issues. What about energy level? It was okay, but this.... But one of the things about African music is it is something that is like felt in their soul. Okay. It is traditionally, when you listen, I mean, they are just letting it... You know, when we see any of the performances, or listen to any of the CDs we've listened to, it's just very gut-felt. I feel like you're, "♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪" So, "This is so pretty." Yes, we want, "♪ SING NOEL, SING NOEL, NOEL, NOEL. ♪" Especially on that, "♪ Sing we all noel. ♪" That's me. We're singing! It's like you're telling people, "We are singing!" Not, "♪ Sing, I think, we all noel. ♪" Okay? So let's make sure that we're right there on that. One more time. See if you can get a little more weight to your sound. I don't mean make it flat. I just mean with more confidence, more security, more support, Okay? Here we go. ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ Awesome! ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ Two part. ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ Support this! ♪ Sing we all noel! Sing we all noel! ♪ ♪ Sing we all noel! Sing we all noel! ♪ ♪ Sing noel, sing noel, noel, noel ♪ Good. And stop there. So you get the idea. That was awesome! Did you hear the difference?
[Together] Yeah.
Awesome. I love that you challenged yourselves. You pushed yourselves there. It's hot. Those notes are kind of high. I know that. And you just pushed right through it. So good job. Let's review the instrument parts we just got to touch on last time. So, I'm going to come here so we can do our body percussion. Real quick. We are going to start with our bass part. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to use these right now because traditional African music is by rote, meaning you learn it by hearing. You learn it by doing. If you are a visual learner, these are our music stands by the instruments, so this will help you. And you know, I want everyone to be successful, so you use the tools that will help you be successful. You be an independent learner where you decide. If this is what you need, grab a music stand. Okay? If you don't, you don't need it. Okay? So there are music stands in each of the instrument sections when you pick. Okay? So, basses first. Let's all kind of scoot over this way. So bass section first. We have, starting with your left hand, [clapping as they sing] "♪ Sing, oh sing, oh sing noel ♪
[Clapping together as they sing] "♪ Sing, oh sing, oh sing noel ♪
And you have that crossover. [Clapping as they sing] "♪ Sing, oh sing, oh sing noel ♪
Everybody feel comfortable with that? Any questions? You look good. You look like you have it. All right. Then we have the xylophones. This one's a tricky one. So we have, for that part... Let me just double check on our words that we decided for last time. So, we have, [clapping as they sing] "♪ Sing noel, sing noel. Let's simply celebrate it. Sing noel. Sing noel. Let's simply celebrate it. ♪"
[Clapping as they sing]  Sing noel. Sing noel.  Let's simply celebrate it. Sing noel. Sing noel.  Let's simply celebrate it. ♪
Okay? So the trickiest part is how many G's. All right. So remember, we have low C and high C, So you have, "C, C, C. C, C, C." And there's four Gs over that syncopated rhythm. G, G, G, G, F, E, D. Okay? So it's kind of like, "One, two, three, down the ladder you go." Okay? So let's try that.
C, C, C. C, C, C. G, G, G, G, F, E, D. C, C, C. C, C, C. G, G, G, G, F, E, D.
Got it? Got the idea? All right. Then we go on to the glockenspiels. And for that one, we can just clap that rhythm, because I think on the instruments it will be easier to see, to show, because they're so obviously a little, so it's not really like that. So here we go. It goes, "♪ Sing, oh, yes, sing noel, noel. ♪"
♪ Sing, oh, yes, sing noel, noel. Sing, oh, yes, sing noel, noel. ♪
Okay? Got the idea for that rhythm? So I will come over and help that section, and some of you may remember that from last time. Then we have our percussion section. Okay? We have first the conga drum. A real quick review on conga drum playing. Everything in you is going to want to tip it toward you. If we can kind of spin back here so I can show you. When you play a conga drum you scoot over this way a little bit. And scoot over that way. There we go. So, when you play conga drum, you actually are going to hold it in between your legs, and put your feet around the base, and you're going to tip it out from you. So that that way the sound can come out, but you also have the correct play style. Remember pat on the ends. when you're playing. And those are in... You can pat this on your lap as well. ♪ [Drumming] ♪ Right now, practice on your fingers. Okay? So here's on this. Practice with a good technique, right now. Ready. Go. ♪ [Drumming] ♪
[Drumming Together]    ♪ This is the part of the conga drum.♪ 
All right. You've got the idea? And that goes over and over, each measure. Then we have the log drum. And the log drum... And again, the parts are right here on the stand if you need them. You're going to have... One side, you're going to play, "Sing." So basically... ♪ [music] ♪ And it doesn't matter with those. "Sing noel, sing noel, sing noel." Okay? So you can clap that real quick.
[Clapping Together] Sing noel, sing noel, sing noel, sing.
Okay? See how it fits? Hello. Welcome.
Thank you very much.
All right. So. Next we are going to have this part, which is traditional African bell. And this one you have, "Rest, rest, rest, [Rings Bell] noel." Sorry, hi to low. So it's, "Rest, rest, rest, [Rings Bell] noel.  Rest, rest, rest, [Rings Bell] noel, rest."  Can you snap it? [Rings Bell] Noel. Rest, rest, rest, [Rings Bell] noel. "Rest, rest, rest,  [Rings Bell] noel. And you can try it. Rest, rest, rest. Hi and fast. [Rings Bell] Noel. Rest. Get them up!  [Rings Bell] Noel. Rest, rest, rest,  [Rings Bell] noel. Yes. Ladies and gentleman, I'm always spot-checking to see if you have rhythmic accuracy when we're doing this. It's really important that I see that participation. Because then when we go to pick parts, I'm looking to see who has it. Yes, there's choice, but also to check you off on including this rhythm thing. Okay? So let's try it again. Ready. Go. Rest, rest, rest. ♪ [Rings Bell] ♪ Rest, rest, rest. ♪ [Rings Bell] ♪ Rest, rest, rest, [Clapping together] noel.  Rest, rest, rest, [Clapping together] noel. You got it. And then,  I love these shakers. [Shaking in rhythm] You are the pulse. You are the heartbeat and the foundation of this song. So it would really be nice if you could pulse with my pulse so we could all pulse together. So again, really important. We might add in some other, more African instruments. They're kind of loud, so we'll see if you can get the correct sound. [Rhythmic shaking stops] So what I'd like you to do now. Do you have any question? All right. If you really mastered the instrument that you got to start on last time, I would challenge you to maybe pick a different one. Okay? If you were still working on it, you're welcome to stay there. But without any payoffs, so just kind of selection, I would like you all to go and pick an instrument part. Remember we have glockenspiels, basses, xylophones, and percussion. So open? Two glockenspiels open, and a bunch of xylophones open. Who was there first? Who was there first between you and Ellen?
[Female student] I was here.
You were there? Okay. So if you want to join the glockenspiels, you can do that. You can go to xylophones. Oh, nobody's up to the challenge. ♪ [music] ♪ All right. Once you get there, you can start practicing.  ♪ [music] ♪ All right. Hold up, everybody! All right. Thank you. Since we're trying to add in some singing over the top of it eventually, if you have the green mallets, would you, especially for you guys, switch them out with the felt mallets instead? So here's a set. Well, you need those for that as well. So we have one. There should be another one in there.
[Male student] Oh, here, right here.
Nope, those are green. You don't want those.
[Male student] Oh, here's another one, right here.
Here, here you go, here's a set That's awesome. Thank you. Because that's just going to make it a lot softer, and not quite as angry sounding. All right. So, let's listen to each part so you can know what you're listening for. Remember, when you are playing in an ensemble like this, if you can't hear the other parts, what does that tell you?
[Together] You're playing too loud.
Yes, you're playing too loud. And remember, again, texture is everything. We want to be able to pull out the different parts, so maybe at the end we can talk about different ways we can set up a form to highlight that. But for right now, let's make sure that we can keep it soft. Okay? It's not a competition. All right? No one's going to win. It's the whole class that we're trying to do this together. So if we hear bass part first. And let's go ahead and add at least shaker for right now, and then we'll build in one or two sections. One, two, ready, go. ♪ [music] ♪ Okay. Time out. So, you're listening for the beat. She's watching me instead of the basses, right? Because you're doing their work a little bit, and you need to keep it nice and steady. What happened, we ended up with three different tempos. Did you hear that? One, two, ready, go. ♪ [music] ♪ Okay. Pretty good. And then we started to kind of get off where the beginning of the patterns are. Okay. One thing that will help is adding the singing to it. Okay?
