Glue. Here we are.
[Boy on left] Compression is really (background chatter) Compression is really getting it.
[Teacher] Hey guys, what ya doin?
Adding our stuff to this.
Oh, I've been trying to tell you that this bridge holds one kilogram without breaking.
[Teacher] A thousand grams? Wow! That's really good.
That's probably why you want us to have a railing.
[Teacher] Uh huh.
So it doesn't just slide off.
That's true, you do want to keep something on the bridge. Well, that's very good.
And we're thinking about, it bends a lot, so we could do this.
It's really bendy bendy.
And you just broke it. Don't break it. The last time she just dropped it and it splattered all over the place.
[Teacher] Okay, so this is the roadway?
Yes.
Okay, and then what's going to hold this up?
We're trying to figure out everything. If we get all the pieces, and then trying to see what we can do to add it all together.
Do we have, um, wait a minute, guys, we could have one of the railings on the front and the bottom. The top and bottom.
Stick? Cause I was thinking we could put this on the bottom.
Guys, like if we had one on the top and bottom, like on the movie, it would hold it down and up at the same time, keeping it flat.
Hey, you know what we could do? We could make kind of like a T shape and then bend the top of the stick, and then glue it on that way.
What would you glue that to? You say you're bending it into a T shape, okay so you'd have a T shape.
Go like--
[Teacher] Okay.
Try to bend that.
[Boy on left] Hand me a book, we need to put more compression.
I learned by that idea, if I put a book on it, it would keep the glue down, and it would keep it compressed.
[Boy on left] We need more compression let's get a couple of books.
Here's another one. Also, put a kilogram on it.
Yes, you did put a kilogram on it, that's true.
[Boy on right] I mean, like, on there.
Oh, okay. So this rail that you have over here, that's a truss?
And as soon as we add this.
Is that going to be under or above the railway?
We were deciding to go above.
Cause it has to have a railing, and then below is optional.
Okay, but how is it going to get attached?
We were trying to figure out that.
Okay. (background chatter)
Now we just keep going.
[Teacher] Okay. (background chatter) I will come back and check on you, all right?
Okay, give me a couple Popsicle sticks, so I can put it underneath.
Will we put them underneath the thing?
[Boy on left] Oh, dang, dang, dang. (background chatter)
[Girl in pink] It's hard, because these right here, but only two places are touching.
Oh, I see what you mean. I don't think it's overlapping, because there's the one in between
[Girl in white] I was just making sure, okay.
Yeah, I see what you're saying, but I kinda think they work, because this is really only touching this, and here it touches this one, but it's not like it's continuously touching from here to here.
[Girl in white] I was just making sure, sheesh you guys.
[Teacher] Why don't you all tell me more about your bridge?
[Boy in white shirt] Well, it's kinda a mix between an arch bridge and just a regular bridge, I mean beam bridge.
Okay, can you sit up?
We're continuing to make our arch, but we have run into a problem.
Okay.
We decided we're going to put glue on top of here, to fill in some of the cracks that we had.
It would act like cement, but we forgot that when glue dries, it contracts.
So, the bridge has kind of curled.
[Logan] Guys, guys.
Logan, we're not in your group, we're okay.
Also, I was thinking, when we did the arch, it might need support under the bottom, but the triangle might be a little odd, cause it would stand on this end part.
[Boy in white] We could do what we did here.
Can you get the popsicle stick to be the shape you want it to be?
Well, I was thinking we could just, like, bend it, and put it on that.
I'm going to test this on the weights
We need two kilograms, if you can get it.
[Teacher] Now, how long is your bridge? Have you measured your bridge?
Our bridge is--
[Teacher] Are you doing it in metric, or in customary?
We're doing it in customary.
[Teacher] Customary, okay.
It's 55 cm, or 22 inches and 2 cm. (laughs)
[Teacher] Okay, we're not going to mix measurements.
It's like, 22 and a half inches.
[Teacher] Okay. So if you had 12, is that 12 plus 9?
Yeah.
So 21 and a half maybe?
Yes.
Okay.
You guys, I got the two 200 kilogram things, so we could--
Gram?
I said gram.
[Teacher] 200 grams.
It will be heavier than the glue bottle.
And that way we can use the glue.
Okay, so this is the bridgeway where the cars are going to go? The arch is going to be above the roadway.
No, because, here you can't fit two cars, but it will go smoothly for the rest of it. Like, we made it so two cars would go right next to each other, like we didn't think we could leave the extra space.
Right, but they might take off each other's rear-view mirrors. (background chatter)
Right.
We ran into that, though.
What could you do about that?
We don't really know, because all of this stuff is dry, so far it's holding up quite well.
Well, what if this was only one lane? What if you made another one just like it to be the other lane?
[Boy in white] That would be perfect.
But it would take a good long while.
[Boy in white] No it wouldn't. We built this in a couple of days. Yeah, we could glue it together with like these.
Yeah, okay.
Perfect.
Thanks Miss Hoyle. All right guys, let's start working on that one. So are these the same size as these? Let's try to make it more even this time.
Making that is going to take, like 50 days.
We need 50 of these guys, right?
[Teacher] Tell me a little bit about this arch and what it's going to do. As you build the arch, how is that going to keep your bridge steady?
Well, it's like, when the arch gets pulled on, it's gonna be secured here, so instead of the bridge itself getting the tension, it's going to go a little bit like it is now.
Okay, it's going to pull it away?
A little bit. Which means I've got to get the weight on it.
So it's going to create the outward thrust?
Yeah.
Which with an outward thrust, what do you need to have on the sides of the bridge, if you have an outward thrust? Remember?
Oh, it's, uh
Abutments, do you remember that?
Yeah.
You need that, something over here to take the force, the pressure that's being exerted from the center outward. (background chatter) the outward thrust.
I have a thing with that one, it hates me, I hate it.
So have you tried laying your bridge across a 20-inch span?
Yeah, we did it on a desk (background chatter)
It caved in a little in the middle, but when our arched is finished, it'll actually help.
Tell me why you feel like it caves in in the middle?
The important thing is, what we did was, we put glue in between in to act like cement, to keep it together.
Uh huh.
Well, that made it curl a little bit, and so it was a little weaker in the middle, because that's where it was starting to bend.
And also partially because it's, it's--
We don't have a lot of support on the bottom, which makes the, um, its tension affected.
I kind of suggested triangles at the bottom, but we haven't really done that yet.
Yeah, that's because we haven't got the arch up yet. Oh, you mean on the bottom of the bridge.
Yeah.
That's a good idea. Well, we need to start working on it.
All right, well I'll leave you alone, and I'll come back and check on you later, okay?
Guys, we've got four of these. We need a lot more.
All right then, well let's get going. I'm going to keep working on the arch, okay?
Wait, wait, wait, that was part of the arch support.
The first arch needs to get worked on. Could you guys make the second road, and I'll continue on the arch. It needs to get to get built (background chatter) (background chatter)
This idea isn't working.
Maybe we should try to like add this on here, so that it doesn't like fall.
Oh, okay.
And that way the arch will stick to the top, and this arch will stick to the bottom.
Do you girls want to try that?
Sure, sure
Also, I think it will hold maybe a little better because--
[Girl in pink] Nicky, it's not all like--
This is just like that, it's still gonna kind of, it's still going to kind of stick to this, even if we had this idea, it'd be like that, it won't exactly hold that very well.
Show me how it's going to be touching, like this, onto there?
I think, yeah, well like,
Like that, this way?
Yeah, but like with this on top, so like that, and then this at the bottom.
Okay.
It will hold better now.
Actually this is the right way here, right?
Yes.
It's like that, okay.
Yes, and then, we also figured out, um when there's going to be 1000 grams on there, it broke in half.
Oh no!
This part, it kinda snapped.
[Girl in blue] It can hold 500.
Yeah, it can hold 500
It can hold 500 grams
Yes, and 200.
And 200 grams.
Yes, so I don't--
Oh you tried 700 grams also?
Yes.
Okay.
So that's not bad.
It kinda snapped here, but, yeah so, um it might be a little more sturdy once we add the, like, underneath.
Okay, the piers?
We should add the piers in the middle, seriously.
Well yeah, we can add it, like, side, middle, and side.
I feel like we should do it, like, bang one on that side and one on the other
Yeah, but it's still with the one on top (laughs)
Yeah.
Yeah.
We definitely want it--
Want it to hold.
Yeah, definitely.
Yes.
[Teacher] All right, I want to see what's going on over here. (background chatter)
Right now working on the railing.
[Teacher] Okay.
And Molly's doing that by, she gluing, she's working on the sidewalk right now, we're almost done with the railing.
[Teacher] Okay.
And what Molly's doing right now, is she is, we're gluing two popsicle sticks together like this.
[Teacher] Okay.
And, uh, we're going to glue them against here.
[Teacher] Okay.
So they can, we're probably going to put another popsicle stick like this in the middle, so they glue together easily. Glue them right here to the side.
Okay.
And then we're going to put the railing on the side of this, so like on this side, like this and then the railing will be on this side, so that'll, the railing is three inches, Brooke said.
Right
So, we're almost done with our bridge stuff at this--
Would it be helpful to work from the bottom, to glue the pedestrian bridge, would it be helpful to work on it from the bottom.
Yeah, probably would.
And even though it bends, it's bent, it's really, really strong.
Uh huh.
It can hold more than a kilogram.
Oh that's wonderful. Now did you, um, what kind of force, what do we call it when the bridge is bending like that in the middle?
Um, it's compression and tension. Tension is pushing it out, like this, making the sides curl up, and then the compression is what makes the bridge (inaudible)
Okay, so you're going to compensate for that like this. So are these your trusses?
No, these are the railings. We thought that it would act like a truss.
Okay.
Even though we're not going to have one going on the bottom
They're going to be on the top? It's all going to be on top.
And you did try laying it across a 20-inch gap? (background chatter)
We measured it to make sure it's 20 inches.
Okay, good, well do want to try measuring a 20-inch gap between a couple of desks and just seeing what it, not while it's wet, but when it's dry? See what it's like. What are you doing Molly?
I'm gluing the popsicle sticks together for the start of the sidewalk, and then when it's dry, I'm going to get them to go together like that.
Okay. and then I'm going to take my railing. How's that going to attach?
With another popsicle straight up and down attaching the railing to the sidewalk. And then just attach the whole thing to the bridge, as one piece.
Okay. (background chatter) I was thinking that you guys should take popsicle sticks and put them across the top, connecting the two railings together, with popsicle sticks at the top.
[Boy with dark hair] Like a covered bridge?
[Molly] Yeah.
So this is for a crab run bridge, is that what it's called?
[All] Yes.
That's a real bridge that needs to be replaced, isn't it?
Yes.
And we've actually figured out what's it's going to be replaced by.
[Teacher] Oh, okay, you found it on the internet?
It's actually, it's um, a beam bridge. But it's not over water, it's over rough terrain.
[Teacher] Okay. And it's in Highland County, it's way to the--
[Molly] It's northwest.
