Let's go.
Okay.
(Teacher) Continue.
Yes. All right scholars, here's my question. What do you think...actually, let me start by quoting the passage. So it says, they can either trust or predict what Chacko's attitude would be, and they were trying to hide that, get rid of it all, before Chacko returned. So, what do you think Chacko's opinion of all of this chaos would be?
Could you just be particular with... the chaos you were talking about? What's that?
The entire situation, the steamy love affair, and the reaction on Baby Kochamma's part. And Mammachi's part.
Got it.
I don't think he'd be happy about the love affair, cause as it says, it's like, she had defiled generations of breeding like the little blessed one, blessed personally by the Patriarch of...
[Teacher] Antioch.
Antioch, an imperial entomologist, and Rhodes Scholar from Oxford, so it's like she had taken what their family had worked for for so long, and just... thrown it out the window.
I'm gonna have to disagree with that Becca, I mean, I think that Chacko is a liberal type. He is very progressive, he's a Marxist, he didn't allow his father to beat his mother as most Indians...Traditionalists, probably would be OK with. I think that Chacko would be no more angry about the whole affair than anybody would be if, some guy was having an affair with his sister. As a social ideal, I think he would be fine with everything.
I agree because I feel like, oh God I had this whole plan of something to say and I can't remember. Sorry.
No, it's not your fault.
(Teacher) Well, what is the only thing that made Chacko upset at Mammachi?
Was it that she abandoned her children? Oh, I got it. Yeah, I feel like the most of this passage, though it's third person narration, it really feels like it's coming out of Baby Kochamma's mouth, and it's like her diction throughout all of the italicized stuff. The whole central paragraph where it uses a lot of dirty diction like mud and filthy and coarse and black. To quote the passage once again. So, I feel like that all really Baby Kochamma's words and not necessarily Baba's beliefs, and I feel like they have really contrasted beliefs.
(Teacher) Yeah, I mean I feel like all the diction you were talking about, for instance, when it says, "Mammachi's rage at the old one-eyed Paravan standing in the rain, drunk, dribbling and covered in mud..." And it repeats mud a lot, and I think it's... that's just kind of dirty and the action is really impure and they're trying... and almost like mud covers things up. So it's almost like it should be covered up. And they were trying to cover it up.
But don't you feel like they used Chacko not being there and coming back as an excuse to do everything they do. Oh, he's coming back so we have to do this. They kind of use him as the excuse to do it.
Well, it's sort of like Chacko could intervene, and so we have to do it now so we can't miss our chance to do it again.
I think that's important, actually. I think that a theme of unintended consequences like it says here, "It wasn't their fault when the whole "thing spun like a deranged top." I think the theme of unintended consequences is really crucial to both the book and the movie. In the movie, for example, when Mahuditi says she thinks she knows what the consequences will be if Kayani gets married, but the unintended consequences confound the defilement that she commits by him being around.
I think that's... this book and movie is really trying to say, is this is what happens when you set up rules and don't adapt to social conditions which are inevitably bound to change. (laughter)
I'll just go. (laughter) In the fourth paragraph, they talk about having a plan. It's very orderly, and they said that Kochu Maria was a midget lieutenant. They had this very organized and planned out, even though in the second paragraph, "she shuddered with a school-girl shudder." It's like her childish emotions are being turned into or coming out through her adult form where she has the power to do stuff.
Yeah, on that I really want to say cause it says, "school-girl shudder" at the beginning. And then it back in the fourth paragraph, when it's talking about their plan, they're referred to as, "the two old ladies". So that's contrasting in a way to be described, which obviously it's important.
Yeah, I think that's one of the themes of the passage. Conflicts between age and which one is ultimately... I don't want to say better, but a better advantage. I guess.
Like in authority?
Between age and youth, you mean?
Between old and young.
Yeah, age and youth. Which one can have a better life according to them.
They also play with age. When they locked Ammu up, it's kind of like putting her in time out, like they tricked her in to her room, which is also a parallel I saw in the movie when they locked Kalyani up so she couldn't get married. It was to keep them from doing stuff.
I just want to bring up another theme of the passage. Where it's the very beginning where it's before we are completely ruined by the (inaudible). It kind of presents this idea that society is not built on the basis of individual needs, what you do. In this society, at least, affects everybody around you. And it kind of contrasts Ammu's individualism with what societal hierarchy, and how these two women are higher on the hierarchy, so they have authority over her, and so they're telling her not to do this. And they're presenting their authority over her. And Chacko's even higher than them, just cause he's a guy.
When the passage lists the life cycle events, the weddings, the funerals, baptisms, and birthday parties, it says for generations to come, so I feel like what Peter was saying, it affects all of society. That also ties in with the age because the weddings are for younger people. The funerals are when you die. The baptisms are when you are just born. So it's saying it will affect everybody at all parts of their life, that's how profound it is.
And even that sentence that Peter was talking about, before it goes any further. Before we are completely ruined, I think that's also just family selfishness because they're just projecting what her... the consequences of her actions will be for them. Not necessarily for her. And in the movie, where the leader of that house of she's just really concerned about herself. She'll sacrifice all of the other women just so she's comfortable.
But does she also use a we. I think both Baby Kochamma and Diti say the same thing. We're gonna be ruined by this. We we we. (laughter)
In regards to that, I think... In water, you know how all the widows they sorta put them together, and they sort of create this unity. It's all out of despair because they all lost something. In a sense, Mammachi lost her former love, and so did Ammu. Ammu had babies without... It wasn't a formal tradition. The way she had her babies. And so in a sense, she has... She's in grievance, and so those two aspects unites these women.
Yeah, they're all widows.
Yeah, they're all widows. and that really...
But does that give them right to be...
Oh understand, that's why I feel like it says, "we". Not "we", like our family, but more of like, "we" women who are widowed.
(Teacher) Austin, what do you think? Do you think that gives them the right to... because they've also lost and because Baby Kochamma and Mammachi has also experienced trauma, so that also means Diti, as well. Her husband died when she was young. Does that give them the right to take that...?
I don't think so, cause that was actually one of my questions. Especially when it says, "Her tolerance immense needs, as far as her son "was concerned became the fuel for "unimaginable fury at her daughter". And then just my question was, is Baby Kochamma's actions motivated by Indian society or her own emotions? So I don't think that they should be able to from their past experience... take it out on everybody else.
I think that what we're talking about right now, maybe be reason that Ghandi appears at the end of the film. Because Ghandi, as he is portrayed in water is a symbol of rationalism. And it's... when he shows up, nice Diti sees that (inaudible) may have a refuge from cycles of hatred and of tradition conceived for the purpose of basically personal gain. Ghandi's existence in the movie is indictments of almost every action taken in this passage by the scheming old women.
I think that Ghandi, in the movie, represents more of rebirth because they talk about how much society will change once Ghandi takes power. The widows will gain power. The untouchables won't be untouchable anymore. They'll gain more rights. So I think they look at him as, not really rationalism, because some people think that he's just crazy. The Brahmin caste don't see him as rational, so I think it's more of a hope in an idealized society.
Building off of what she said, how Ghandi represents re-birth, I think coincides with the movie's title, "Water". For me, at least, the way I saw it. I felt like water was rebirth throughout the movie. They washed themselves... it was washing away their sins. Being reborn. I thought who's the girl? The one who killed herself.
Kalyani
I thought that it was symbolic when she drown herself. Because the way she was killing herself, she was submersing herself in water, and I thought since water was clearing away your sins and stuff, she in a sense, she was clearing away her sins. And so she would go to the next life sinless.
I think that the drowning of Kalyani parallels to how Sophie Mol drowned. How it's like the innocent life was taken by the water. Which isn't really... innocence, too.
But was Kalyani innocent?
I think that if she hadn't been forced to do things  she would have been... she didn't feel right about what she had done.
I'm gonna take the opposite view point to the water that symbols of inescapability in the movie because of the way... in both the movie and the book. It says the fisherman had already found Sophie Mol. She... They drowned trying to cross the river, and Kalyani loses everything when she crosses the river and realizes who Norian really is. The river is important in both works. It's an inescapable wall. So I don't think water is portrayed as a good image.
I mean, it could possibly be both. I think Peter made a pretty good point about it. Sam did with Kalyani's death and Sophie Mol's death. But I think it could be both.
I think it's a duality thing. And then going on combining what both ya'll said, where you said it's an inescapably, and the way they view it as washing away their sins. View it as a cleansing thing also, for example, emphasizes the irrationality of all their beliefs. And they're cleaning themself in this... if water is just viewed a symbol, they're cleaning themselves with something that's bad. I also don't think that...
They depend on the water, too, to get their food from it. They wash themselves in it. Yet, it's also... it creates this... it's something that the Paravans are trying to overcome. A lot of people are trying to overcome this barrier, but they depend on it. They still need it. So it's contrasting what they believe...
Just like a duality thing.
Yeah.
It's the family and God's talkings. Their immediate family. They depend on each other because when you're a child, you have to have an older figure to help you grow up. But, they are also... They cause the turmoil with each other. They create their own problems, pretty much.
It's like you can't live with them, but you can't live without them.
(Teacher) Susan, did you have a question?
(Susan) Yes, I did. Well, a lot of them are about similarities between characters. But one thing that I thought about was how Norian dealt with his lover's loss, and how Velutha was able to deal with being separated from... Ammu. And do you think that their status influenced how they were able to deal with the situations?
Sorry, I missed all this. (laughter)
So she
(boy student) I heard
Well, Norian, because he was a Brahmin, the highest caste, I think he said we'll either going to Calcutta or India, ? to start his life.
You mean Kolkata?
Or, I'm sorry, or England. To become a lawyer. So he had the option of completely starting his life over wherever he wanted to go because he had education, and he could provide for himself. Velutha was an untouchable, so he had no opportunity.
