In case you think there's something missing, and then we'll see what you got.
Okay.
The tongue does with the [Inaudible].
The tongue? Oh yeah, because the trachea will swallow it. No, the trachea's the air....
The esophagus close your...
The esophagus is the food pipe for the thing.
No, the esophagus is the thing that stops the food...
The esophagus is the food part, the windpipe is the trachea.
You talking about the epiglottis.
Oh, the epiglottis!
That's the flap of skin that stops it, food going down your trachea, your air passageway.
So you don't choke.
Right.
How do you spell that?
How do you spell what?
Are you gonna put that in there somewhere? Well, here's what I'm talking about, you only need four people in this group, and you don't have as many pieces of paper. Don't take more without asking, why are you taking more? Why?
Because Tyler got [Inaudible] on it.
Go wash it in the sink. I'll mark down on my clipboard who's having trouble with self-control. Go to the sink and wash it with soap and water. All right, so you guys do not have the same number of papers that they have at the other table, because you only have four people, so I'm gonna let you add more. If you feel that you could add a few more pieces to fill it out more, go for it. And then I'll check in with y'all in just a minute.
Add head.
Yeah, but she said it has to be a word. What's another word for stomach acid?
Stomach acid?
Acid?
Why don't you put acid?
That could be anything.
In your stomach?
Stomach acid's kinda like a compound word.
Well, actually, since stomach's already here, and if we put acid right here, you can't just say it's any kind of acid.
Yeah, because it's going down the mouth, to the throat, to the... and they have acid in the stomach.
Well, that's the intestine. Duh, acid. [bell rings]
I'm gonna stop you right now, because we wanna take this to another level, but what I have is I have several groups with several different ways of looking at it. What seems to be a common thread among some of you is to order things, to put them in an order of sequence. I had one group that grouped them. So, what I'm asking is that, I'm still seeing a little bit of food in there, and I'm still seeing that you've got processes, some people have processes in there, and body parts, we got lots of body parts. So, what I'm gonna ask you to do is, if we could put, if we could create a big system on the board, with the pieces, and if there are duplicates, this is why I didn't want you sticking 'em too much, we just put it on top. So I'm gonna ask you to do this, this is gonna be tricky, we're not gonna have a lot of time, so I'm gonna ask you to bring, by groups, your Post-Its and put them on the board, this is our work space. So if you think it should be in, out five groups, four of you think it should be in a linear kind of grouping, so we're gonna go with the sequence of events order. So what I want you to do is put 'em on the board and let's look at what you've got, if there's duplicates, put it on top, if there's something you have that's different, figure out where, if you can move something, can it share a space, does it happen at the same time? We talked about it over there, what three things did you have?
Esophagus, throat and neck.
So they thought those were on equal grounds. That they were all, either in the same place, or the same function, I wasn't sure, I didn't ask them, but they've got them together. So, this is gonna be hard. It's real easy sitting there with your group of five or six or four people. Now you've gotta work with twenty-four, twenty-three. Okay? So, we're gonna start with Group One. And if you can just come stick 'em on the board, and I'm gonna get Group Four next. And you'll go up with them. So, you have to make one picture on this board that shows me how you think they fit. If you wanna put them in the same order, don't make them touch, leave enough room for manipulations. Yes?
[Inaudible]
No. Pardon?
[Inaudible]
The abdomen is the middle, the butt is the fleshy part. The anus is the actual opening, and the rectum is the tube. Yeah, so it's very distinct differences. They can't interchange. All right, so just stick 'em on, and then move quickly. Got 'em? All right, got 'em on? That's why I said, they're not going to stick well, if you keep sticking them on your face and get the oil from your face. All right? Make sure you agree. Now, you're gonna go up there with your Post-It notes. You may need to use some of their pieces, you're welcome to move any of their pieces, to fit in, since you're coming up there after them. And the group that comes after you will be free to move any of your pieces, okay? All right, y'all pay attention. All right. Got 'em? All right, can you do me a favor and plan before you get up here how you're gonna do it, so we can make it move quickly. All right, guys, have a seat. Now, they don't, they have some words you don't have. So how are you gonna make this work? You gonna put yours up above it?
We're gonna put ours in our order, we could fit their's in there.
There you go, however you wanna do it. Come up and get their voices.
What's next, mouth? Water, where's water?
I think we need mouth.
I have teeth.
Tongue, then teeth.
Mouth.
I have taste-buds. It was tongue, teeth, then chewing.
It was tongue, then teeth.
Saliva, it was saliva, saliva.
Chewing. I think it was tongue, then saliva. No, It was tongue, taste-buds, saliva, teeth.
Then chew. And then I think it was esophagus, next.
I have intestine, stomach and waste.
Stomach and then intestines and then waste.
And then kidney, no put 'em on the same. All right, we put theirs up, now teeth, intestines...
I'm gonna leave you guys for last over there, you have a smaller group, I'm gonna leave you for last. All right? [Background Chatter]
All right, so health? Health should be overall, I guess it's like, yeah.
Yeah, you get health from eating.
Proteins go with food, no?
Yeah, nutrients.
How are you doing?
It's kind of hard to put this in the same group with...
So, you were looking linear, and now it's hard to go linear, because they've thrown these other things in. Yeah, you have a scrap board, what do you do? You might wanna build off.
That's what I'm saying, or like, switching some, some of them are very vague.
And that's exactly it. If they're vague, you're not quite sure how they tie in, you weren't there for their discussion. So you don't know what their train of thought was. So make it work. And realize that somebody's gonna come behind you, and they might change it.
Let's put protein and nutrients. But health is overall.
All right, this is getting very interesting. Their strategy...
You have to realize, and I'll make the point while we're waiting for them to finish, because they're having their own discussions. When you have your discussion with your group, your having a discussion with a small group. So, when you get up there and you see a word, and you weren't there for the discussion that brought that word into the list, you weren't there, you don't know what their thinking was. So, just like we always say, you can't disregard somebody's input because you don't believe it should be there. You have to find a way, oh, I'm sorry! I'm sorry! Thank you, I need you next, because y'all have the next least amount. Thank you for catching that. You have to make sure that what you do doesn't lose the meaning or change the meaning and doesn't judge somebody else's input, you have to just make it work. Grab it. If you know where it goes. All right, but if, by some chance, that's what happens when you start stacking, we can use this masking tape in little tiny pieces. All right, go for it.
Ooh!
Are you all right, is it still working? You're fine!
Yes, we're okay.
You lost a nose, we dropped a nose.
A nose!
But you see, it's OK, it may not have stood out in your discussion. And you might have brought something to the discussion that they didn't.
Y'all gotta talk louder.
Okay, nose should be here.
Literally, put it right on top of it.
Stomach, okay, teeth, chewing, epiglottis, esophagus, wait, esophagus, esophagus, wait.
If you have to move something, or if you think it needs to be...
This is the esophagus.
In other words, if you think you have to move something over to fit yours in, because it's not there...
And then...
Intestines.
And then acid.
This word's already here. So right after the mouth?
Then intestines, and then to the kidneys, and then to the waste, and then health.
Do you wanna move it somewhere else? If you think something should be on the same plain, I just use the example of Scrabble game with them.
I think saliva...
I think water and food.
Once you put it into your mouth, you're gonna get saliva.
Okay, so, see what they did? So if you feel like you need to move anything, we need to get saliva back in there, so how's saliva gonna work?
Saliva goes with taste-buds and mouth. And tongue!
Put it, like, in the middle.
Okay, it should stick. Wait, discuss, go ahead, tell them what you think.
It looks like...
Are y'all ready, are you almost ready?
No.
You do know, the more that get up there, the harder it gets.
So you're making it harder for us?
No, I'm making it harder for them.
Oh!
All right, I'm coming. Got it?
They have like three on intestines.
Let's put a little piece of tape to hold up the intestines. Yeah, just stick a little piece up at the top. It doesn't matter. And can you add this to the waste so it doesn't fall? All right, you guys, good? Okay, go! All right, how are y'all doing out there? Are you watching this unfold?
Yeah.
And Group One, I mean Three, Group Three? You guys look at the task ahead of you, it's gotten bigger.
I need tape.
All right, I'm gonna give you a little bit. I'd like you not to put too much on the board, more on the paper. You have to figure out, if you have a duplicate, then just tape it over the top of it. Anything that's duplicate. All right, all right.
I need tape.
You need tape, all right, so,
Where do you put stomach?
All right, so he's got a question about where to put stomach.
No, I have stomach acid, I'm seeing where she's putting stomach.
It's over here, this is acid.
All right, so it's way down there. So move down there.
I need some tape.
And I will tell you the same thing I told the other two groups. Think about Scrabble. So if you have to go in a different direction to make something work, you just go in a different direction, you make it work. Okay, you guys have the hardest job. Or it might be the easiest.
Mucus!
Where does the gallbladder go?
What is that, epiligotis, oh, my bad.
But, look how much came out. That's good, we didn't have that much expansion on that idea before, all we had was body parts.
Can we have tape for two?
What do you need?
Two pieces of tape.
All right, two pieces of tape. All right, how we doing?
Emily, where do I put mucus?
Mucus goes with the, in between...
The neck thing?
Is that everything?
All right, y'all ready? [Background Chatter] Would you do me a favor and tell Mr. Dresser we need five more minutes? You have a test? Oh, tell him three minutes. [laughing] Thank you. So we need three minutes. You got it?
Okay, I think it's good.
All right, ready guys? All right, have a seat. Okay, now, everybody goes up, last group. Take your papers, go!
I need a band-aid.
For what?
To put over my...
Your what? Let me look and see if I have one. Sometimes you have those little bitty ones. Okay, I will look. If you need them... Thank you. All right, if you're stacking it and it won't stick, I have tape. Here, stick your mouth on that mouth.
This we can put over this, can we change this?
Yes. Use this, all right, you got it? Here, just put it like that. All right, how are y'all doing? What do you have left? Why don't you, Alex, would you lift up health and move my volcanoes, just slide the volcano down, it'll come off. Just slide it down. Now you can do it that way. Do you need more tape? All right, how are we doing? In case it doesn't stick. Got it? All right, now, I want you to, while you are waiting, and I appreciate the patience that you guys have had, I want you to watch and look at what it looks like now. Because some of you made some significant placements and they've made some significant changes to that. So take a look at what the resulting image is here. Y'all finished?
Wait, don't you think this should be over there?
That's right, they get to, you have your perspective and they're bringing theirs to it. And they had, what could have been the hardest part, or the easiest part. Okay, I wanna pick up on one thing that you guys said, because one of the things that you had, when you came here, and the group was already, had already laid all this out, was that they felt strongly that the mouth needed to be here. So why?
Because food goes in there.
[Loudspeaker] Paging Mrs. Dalton, Dalton come in.
I'm sorry, hold on. Try it again.
Like if you're eating something like a hamburger or you're drinking water, it's gonna go straight to your mouth, and then, it goes in there.
So in the order that we've established here, do you see what they did? Do you agree with that?
Yeah.
Is it logical?
Yeah.
OK, is there anything else that you placed, that you recognize was changed? And you wanna know why it was changed. Or you went, "Oh!" Because I did hear a lot of, "Oh, we didn't think of that," when you were watching these things go up.
Like at first, I thought that that should go before that.
Don't know "that," I don't know what "that" is.
Um, the glucose, water, and food.
Okay, this column of...
Yes, I thought that that should go before the mouth, because, I was like, "But don't you put it in, "don't you put the food in your mouth?" And they were like, "Yeah, but once it enters your body, "it's not first in the..."
Okay, using that logic, is there anything else that should be adjusted? Blair?
Uh, where the nose is?
Okay, what do you think we should do with that?
You should put the nose right before the mouth, or after, because it's like, you kinda smelled it before you put it in your mouth.
So would this be logical if I moved this over and put this here, like he suggested.
Yes.
I want to disagree.
You disagree, you're welcome to.
Smelling it, is not a part of digesting it, at all.
Yeah, that's what I said.
Is growling a part of digesting it?
No.
It's the way your body reacts to the smell.
If we use your logic, I'm not saying, remember, the way we work things in here is that you can't judge if it's right or wrong, you can certainly disagree with it, that's true. I may disagree, but this is your work, this is not for me to, this is what you're thinking. So, but, using the logic you used, growling, light-headed and dryness in mouth is not a part of digestion, but what do these things have in common? I saw someone, what do these things here have in common?
They're symptoms of hunger.
OK, so you're calling them symptoms of hunger? What else might they be?
Indicators?
Indicators? Is there another word?
Signals.
Signals.  If you have stomach growling, you feel light-headed, you have a dryness in your mouth, that's a signal, right? And where does the nose fit in to that? And I'll come back to you. You have an answer for my question with the nose? Or you have something else to add?
Like the nose, the nose indicates that you're allowed to put food in your mouth and so you prepare with the saliva so you can help break it down.
So the nose, so if you can't smell...
It's like, when you have a cold, you can't really taste things.
Okay, but does the saliva not flow? Because you can't smell? Because you said, you need to smell to be able to get the saliva to break it down. So if you can't smell, if you have a stuffy nose, or if you don't have a sense of smell, does that stop the saliva?
No.
No, she said, "I don't know." And that's an okay answer. She doesn't know. You could have an opinion.
