Okay, so put these where they need to go on the board. And Liz, your job is graphing. So, Harper tell me about your data. You, your plant is...
20 centimeters.
[Teacher] Okay, and it's grown...
11 centimeters.
[Teacher] Wow, that's a lot of growth, isn't it? Good job. And, Emma, what's your job? You were the recorder. And so, some of the observations...
[Emma] The leaves are bigger. It has grown bigger. In the middle of the leaves there are tiny leaves.
[Teacher] Cool, in the middle of the leaves, there's tiny leaves. That is interesting. And your cotyledon has come off. Okay, so that's good. Excellent. Okay, so Coby, you're going to be using the board and putting your data up there. So, tell me how high, how tall is your plant now?
[Group] 20 centimeters. Okay, let's go check your graph.
[Student] We're out of room.
[Teacher] I have more. So next time, you'll have a graph that will be, take two of this, and it will be 40 centimeters. Because 20 plus 20 is 40. So, here's your 20 centimeter line, what needs to go down here? Okay, now remember to help Parker with observations. (background chatter)
Natalie does the board. Oh, Natalie, go up there. (background chatter)
[Teacher] Okay, girls, let's talk about what your findings are, because, just a second. Talk to me about what happened with your plant. (students all talking at once)
Let's take a look. So, what do you think has, is the reason for it not changing? It was 10 centimeters when you started. It was 10 centimeters again on Monday. (classroom noise drowns out student) Okay, but that's okay because we know the cotyledon was for germination. It's done with that now, and it can grow without it. (classroom noise drowns out students.)
[Teacher] Is it a growing plant? Looking at your graph. Is it growing? So, maybe the leaves will get bigger and then,
The roots will get bigger, too.
[Teacher] the roots will get bigger. The water and the nutrients. Okay, let's take a look at your observations. Roots longer, white root, cotyledon fell off, leaves are pointy, bigger leaves. Now, what did we observe about the growth? About the growth of the plant? What did we observe about it? I think we should include that in your observations. Okay, so observer should record that. Okay, boys and girls, I need all board job people to come on up here. Okay, now you guys, one at a time, are going to fill in your data. Make sure that you're choosing a new color. And I'm going to make sure that these have seen all of your, I don't think I've heard about your growth here. Okay, tell me about what happened (mumbles). Joshua, you need to go sit down, work on the math. You're not ready for that yet? Okay, so talk to your group and see what you need to do next. Okay, so tell me about what has.. (classroom noise drowns out teacher). (multiple students talking) How about the growth? Right now it is, okay, so Alex... Yes, go get some. Now, your plant has, it's 12 centimeters now, it started at... So, how much total growth has... (classroom noise drowns out teacher) (multiple students talking) Okay, so it started at the 10 and now it's a 12. So, can we make that, who's the recorder? So, we want to make that, because this is how much is it growing. Okay, so it's growing, and let's look at our graph. You've got your day, and now... Oh, so you went up a little bit too high here. (classroom noise drowns out teacher) (multiple students talking) Let's take a pencil, Alex, and just do a small X right there, so that we know that we really wanted our bar to stop at 12. Maybe more so that we can see it. Keep erasing it, that's good. (multiple children talking) Don't play with your plant please. If you're all finished, you should be working on the math problems. (multiple children talking) Okay, now, let's talk about your plant. Okay, let me come around here. Tell me about your plant.
It started to get bigger. The shell was growing out and we, it's
And how much has it grown total?
50. Oh, five.
Five, that's right. You started at seven, and now you're at 12, so the difference between That's exactly the same as my plant, too. What I noticed about yours, is over the week, it came out of, like you said, the seed cover came off, and the leaves...
Started to peel and it started to break.
Yeah. Okay, so the stem is really long. Let's put this up here. The leaves are bigger. Who is the observer? You are, okay. And, can we see something about the seed cover? Okay, so while he's doing that, we need to do some important things here. What about the date? (multiple children talking) One 30 goes here, because that was Monday. One slash 30. (classroom noise drowns out teacher) Okay, and today's date is... Okay, and that's it, because today's the third and this bar shows... Natalie go sit down. This bar shows that... Good job you guys, and you've got that added. And let's make sure that we're gentle with that measuring. You can work on it together. Molly, stay with your group. (multiple students talking at once) You guys work on that together. You guys can work on it together. (multiple students talking at once) So, you guys have had, what's the most common number of seeds they found?
[Group] Five.
Five, good. How about the total number of seeds? Now do we know, is each dot worth one? Okay, so what's the total number of seeds? (students talking) So how many seeds in all? Okay, boys and girls, Sophia's finishing up. If you have math extension problems in your table group, please put those to the side. And I'm going to ask Chloe's group and Angel's group, and Derek's group to come and have a seat here on the carpet so we're close to our graph. You do not need to bring anything with you because we have it all up here already. Chloe come join us, please. Alright, Ashton, and Josiah you can move closer, so you can see, or you can stay there. Coby and Isaiah please come join us. Alright. Now one last person needs to fill in her data. Let's see, that would be me, and my height was 16. Okay, so while I'm doing that, take a look at the graph we just built. And think about what are some things that you notice about the graph? What do you see? What are some things in common? What are some things that are different? Turn to your neighbor and tell them one thing that you noticed about the graph. (children talking over each other) Okay, eyes on me. Now you tell me, what are some things that you noticed about the graph, Alex?
[Alex] That six and three has the same height as us. Okay, so group six and three, and you are group?
[Alex] Five.
Five, all have the height of, all the way across, and it's...
[Alex] 10, 12. Centimeters. That's right, so we have three groups that have the same height. Ashton, what did you notice?
[Ashton] So, group one, four, and your group, eight, they're all not matching. But all the other ones have a match. So group eight, and one and four are separate. They don't have someone who's kind of similar. So, that leads me to ask about groups two and seven, tell me about them, Blake.
[Blake] Seven and two are the same.
Seven and two are the same, they both are the same, why Keith?
[Keith] Because they both have 20.
20?
[Keith] Centimeters. So, what group on there has the smallest plant? Alfredo, what group on there has the smallest plant? Group four. Toby, and how tall is group four's plant?
[Toby] Ten centimeters. Ten centimeters, that's right. Now, group four, Molly, tell us a little bit about what happened with your plant.
