 Counting on that. I agree with AJ, but also I think that... What I want to say is that it kind of adds a lot more risk when they get rid of the space shuttle because kind of like what AJ was saying, it's good to have a backup just in case you want it. And we still do need to go up to space every now and again if we want to maintain stuff up there. So we know that, so we're having other people work with it, but the problem is, is that actually adds more risk because now we have to deal with the fact that, "What if they messed up? "What if they blow up "or do something wrong?" And if they're not as stringent on safety standards as we are then there's gonna be a lot more problems and if it's not able to do the same things that's going to be completely bad, too.
 Okay, Eric said, "Go up to fix things." What would be some things that we would need to make sure that we're going up to maintain in space? Just to kind of follow up.
 [Girl] International Space Station.
 Okay, International Space Station.
 Some of the satellites we have in orbit.
 Okay, satellites that do what for us?
 Television and communication.
 Okay.
 Ms. McCall, what's that one with the sun that is predicting the sun flares?
 [Teacher] You can just write Sun Probe.
 Sun probe.
 [Teacher] That's fine. Excuse me while I turn this on.
 [Eric] And the Hubble.
 Hubble's gone a lot longer than they expected it to, so if it breaks, we'd want to repair it.
 Especially since we don't have a new one.
 Alana.
 I know how Mer was talking about the risks, like with the Challenger and that was really devastating, but I remember the wife whose husband died on Challenger. She said that he knew the risks. That's part of being an astronaut and being in NASA and willing to go up there and you're risking your life. It's not like they went in there totally blind about that. I think that's kind of the price of gaining so much knowledge about something so unknown right now. We have to be able to risk our lives to get it and if they have people willing to do that, I say go for it.
 [Teacher] Okay, Blanca and then Megan.
 I get what she's saying with they risked their lives, but you're also risking... the money and time that everyone has put into it. They spent all this time and all this money on these ginormous space things and to put them up into space. And like the Challenger it just exploded and they didn't even really get that far just for one minor error. And I don't think they should cut all the way like they were saying. Have it just when you need it, but it's still a lot of money that our country doesn't really have right now, so maybe it's not the most important thing and there's other things that they need to fix before they can go back to putting more money into that.
 [Teacher] We'll go Megan, then Bieber.
 So, you know how we're paying Russia to fly up to the International Space Station? I think what we should do is have a shuttle and have people pay us to ride up to the space station. Because then we have more funding for NASA and then we have a shuttle. Then people know they can get us instead of giving all this money to Russia to fly up there. I feel like we should still have our own shuttle so that we can fly up, not for free, but we can fly up with the United States and then have open seats for other countries who need to come in. They can pay us for it and then we get the money.
 [Teacher] Okay, Bieber, you need to sit close. Eli, then we'll go Rachel.
 I don't know what color to show, but Russia's not making a profit off of us riding up there. They're just trying to cover their costs. It's not like we'll be doing good business ferrying people to the International Space Station. It's not like a tourist attraction or anything. It's pretty bland up there. Russia's just trying to pay to get us up there. That's the cost of flying somebody there. They're not making profit out of it.
 [Teacher] Okay, good, that's a downpoint. Rachel?
 [Rachel] I agree with what Eli said and also, people were talking earlier about... jobs and how it creates a bunch of jobs. And I think I read somewhere that they created 25,000 jobs or something like that. But if you think about it, if there's 300 million people, that's still less than 1% of the population. So, while it seems like a big number, it's still not creating as many jobs and we could be creating other jobs somewhere else. Especially with the economy, so we could be spending the money that we would be spending on NASA on something else to help boost our economy before we start focusing more on NASA and spending billions of dollars.
 [Teacher] Amber, then Clark.
 I was going to say I kind of agree with that because our economy is so bad right now. Any kind of job that is offered will be really good for us right now, at this point in time. So, I don't think cutting the funding for it would be a really smart idea because that's also putting a lot of people out of work.
 [Teacher] Clark.
 The statistics with the jobs created are probably from when NASA was being used a lot and now that it's been cut down already all those jobs have already been cut. And I don't think in this economy, people need jobs requiring that much education... not everybody has that kind of education to have a job like that. People just need regular jobs in general.
 So, you're saying their employment would be kind of geared towards upper level educated as opposed to maybe...
 And like in science and stuff and not everybody has that.
 That's a downpoint. Luis.
 Going back to the billions of dollars that are wasted or could be used for better things, I found out that the funding for NASA only accounts for 0.7% of the US government spending. I feel like if you just cut all of that, that's not really going to make a huge difference when the government's spending 99.3% on other things.
 [Teacher] We'll go Hallie, then Troy.
 Going back to the risk of sending people out into space, I researched and... I found out that the risk of manned space flights are actually increasing because the budget cuts have already happened. As we're pushing for more people and more money, we're actually hurting ourselves more because the safety and quality assurance programs have been trimmed back. The risk is just becoming more and more.
 That's an interesting point. As we're slowly cutting back on the budgets already, we're automatically increasing that risk because of those budget cuts. Troy?
 I actually support... them cutting the budget because... for one, when they cut budget, they're setting aside money to... buy more space exploration from private companies. Those people are more likely to employ more employees than the government, which also stimulates the economy a lot more. I mean, if everybody's employed by the government, like what could happen to Greece.
 Okay, Shannon hasn't spoken, Bieber.
 Kind of off of what Holly said with the risk and everything going up, I did a little research and with NASA, there was only a 4.1% fatality rate. Out of something like 439 astronauts, there have only been 18 deaths. I feel like there are other jobs with a higher fatality rate than being an astronaut.
 Okay, so even with the budget cuts, we're not seeing this huge increase... Jillian.
 A lot of people are making the points that it's only affecting the people that are on the space shuttles, but at the same time, I don't think people realize the amount of carbon dioxide... put off by one shuttle launch. It's 28 tons of carbon dioxide and it's killing... the plants and fish around the site area and it has a lot of negative effect on everyone, not just the people in the space shuttle.
 So, you're taking the environmental aspect. Besides looking at costs, besides looking at jobs, there's this environmental piece specifically with carbon dioxide. What is the issue associated with carbon dioxide, Jillian?
 The ozone layer depleted... and global warming.
 Thank you, global warming. Tyler?
 To go along with what Luis said, they only get 0.7% of the national spending, but we also have gained more knowledge from NASA than any other government thing. We can discover maybe how Earth is going to end, and we can discover things that are more important than other government, government spending.
 So, you're kind of going at the idea that the benefits are outweighing the small amount of cost when we compare government spending. We'll go Eli, then Justin.
 Also, Luis said it doesn't account for very much of the US budget and if we cut that spending, it's really not going to go to anything more productive. Maybe more guns or something. It's not going to feed the world and buy food for homeless people. It's just going to go to corporations and wars. And then in regards to CO2 emissions... does anyone know how much CO2 emissions a moose puts out in a year? Far more than a truck driver. Cows and moose. I think they can flirt over that. I think that's just moose. (laughter)
 So, you're making the comparison to say the idea that even though it's a human-made craft, if we look at natural sources of the CO2 emission...
 And the relative frequency that a moose passes gas. A space shuttle launch doesn't have that big of an effect on the environment.
 Touche. Anyone have a cup that hasn't spoken yet, that wants to jump in real quick? Justin.
 Going off of what Tyler said, if we stop funding NASA, then we pretty much cut off studying anything outside of our solar system because of the atmosphere of Earth just doesn't allow us to see that far. So, it would lessen the chances of seeing the birth of a star or the death of a star or where earth might be heading in the future.
 Interesting point. Amber, then Eric.
 Besides everything about the jobs, NASA has created a lot of things that have helped us today, different technologies. Like in someone's presentation, they were saying something about they're creating lighter systems for firefighters, and then cosmetic companies are even using their stuff. So, there's a lot of technology that's been created because of NASA, so I think it's benefited us a lot more than it hasn't helped us.
 And so, you're saying those products that have been produced because of the exploration are useful to us in our everyday lives. It's not just useful for exploring many new things. I forgot my order. Was it Eric on that one?
 I have a couple different connections. One of them's with the cost. Like they're saying, it's 0.7% of the total budget, but the thing is, not only is it that low of a cost, it's 14 billion, just to give you an actual number. It's 14 billion dollars for the entire budget of NASA. This year, just for this year alone. To give you a comparison, it's around $640 between $680 for the military budget. That is 47 times more expensive. Now you can say, "Well, alright, that's the military." The thing is that first of all, it has a lot higher mortality rate. Second of all, it's... a lot less productive in general. I mean, we're pretty much paying people to kill other people on the planet. I'm sorry, but that's not very cool in general. For one of those things, we're trying to get a high fatality rate, not for our side but the other side. But the other thing is that for jobs creations, if you want to create more jobs and you're going for a more positive feel, you wouldn't decrease funding for NASA, you would increase funding. Because, think about it. If you increased it 47 times to the military, I'm pretty sure you'd get a lot more than one million even a lot, lot more than just one million jobs from NASA, if you increased this funding a lot, because imagine whole new planets. Just for environment alone is the fact that we have seven billion people on this planet, and with seven billion people, we can't hold that many people very long on this planet. But there are so many other planets out there, that we could easily fit everyone. There's enough planets in this entire galaxy for each person to have their own planet. That's how many planets there are.
 So, you're thinking planning for the future, that it might be beneficial for us. Holly.
 As I was researching, I found out that there's really no short-term benefits and we're not guaranteed long-term benefits. Yes, we are learning about things outside of our solar system and universe, but the main goal of studying outside the universe is so eventually it could help us. We're not guaranteed to find some new way to cure cancer or to protect the earth from... magnetic storms. There might be some way we can save ourselves, but we're not guaranteed that.
 So, you're saying the unknown part of that research kind of plays into  the factor. We can keep researching, but we may never find the answer. Monique, you got some info?
 Yeah, I think when Hepetiah said how benefits outweigh the budget and the risks, we've talked about what was up there. The benefits are so much longer than what we have in the risk section. We gain knowledge, we need to study, the sun probe and Hubble and International Space Station. With jobs, it provides a whole section of jobs, having shuttles go up to space. Not only that, but they've created new inventions through that, and I think the inventions they have created is really important at home and in the hospital. Going from there, there's going to be more. Not just stopping now.
 So again, tying in the cost-benefit analysis, that the benefits are much more outweighing the costs. A.J. and then we'll go Alana.
 I guess to counter what Troy said and what a few people have said, when they talk about that more jobs can be created using the money. It's not just about the economy. When you think about it, NASA wasn't meant to help the economy at all, and it wasn't meant for job creation, even though it has employed so many people. Through the research that I did, there was a story from somebody that's going to be retiring just because he knows he'd lose his job anyway. He said that, "After 30 years, this is all I know." We're losing the most brilliant minds our country has, because they just don't know what else to do. NASA's been open for decades and that's their job. Technicians and analysts, they're not going to just become accountants or something. There's nothing after NASA. That's probably the highest, most prestigious thing. What do you do after that? It's not like they're just going to fill minimum wage jobs, which is what most people are looking for right now, anyway, if you're thinking about job creation.
 It's a good point, you have all these highly educated, specialized people as A.J. points out. Where are they going to go? Are they going to be able to find jobs within our country? Are they going to go overseas and then maybe be helpful and more productive for other countries? It's a good point. Alana, then Troy.
 I know we're talking a lot about the cost-benefit and job creation, but I want to go back to the safety, and I have a question for everyone just to think about. The main part in all the failed missions, especially with the shuttle and the Challenger, it's basically been human error. You know they talk about how the higher guys wouldn't listen, that it was too cold outside and the ring would break and  everything, but I've been thinking: what if we were to use some sort of higher technology instead of relying on human    and the possible errors that we make. Like robots, we use robots to build half our cars, and that probably cuts down a lot on the human error rate. So, do you think using more robotic and higher technology than just humans, would that help in any way with the safety issue and the errors that we make?
 [Teacher] That's an interesting point. We'll have to put that on the question board. Troy, what you got?
 Kind of to counter what A.J. said, these people are highly educated. Minimum wage places are probably the ones that are hiring the least. Companies with a lot of money are the ones that are hiring them now. People that have... highly specialized degrees, they're really intelligent and they could be working at places like in finance. Those people are being hired a lot more than people that have financial degrees. If you can do quantitative physics, those people are going to be hired a lot more than someone who's just a finance agent.
 So, your counterpoint is the idea that because they're so highly educated, they will find some sort of a niche.
 Yeah. There's a lot of people that actually get degrees in rocket science and end up going into finance because it pays better.
 Interesting. Jillian?
 Back to what Alana said, if you're using robots to make it safer, that's also just going to cost more money to make those robots and to find people that can make those robots. If you're using robots as the engineers, then you're having people lose jobs.
 Interesting point. So, kind of a counterpoint to... shifting our focus from human exploration to robotics, there's some drawback association. We'll go Rachel.
 Going back to what Eric said a while ago, he was talking about the military and it has a higher budget, but I feel like the military helps a lot of people, and it creates a lot of jobs and educates people, because the military pays for a lot of people's education, university and stuff. I know a lot of people now, since university is so expensive, a lot of people are going into the military so they can get their education paid for. So, I feel like it should have a higher budget because it's creating so many jobs and especially for people who aren't necessarily... has a doctorate in physics or something. People that are really smart, like what Troy said, they won't really have that much of a problem finding jobs, especially with a big corporation. They don't have to necessarily work for the government or NASA or something. So, I think that the budget should stay where it is, because that's pretty funny.
 [Teacher] We'll go Megan and Tyler.
 I don't know when it was mentioned, but we were talking about how we're trying to find how the earth will be when all has failed, and I feel like with all the carbon dioxide emitted and with our atmosphere right now, we're trying to discover what our world will be like when all of that's gone. I feel like that's really important for the development of Earth, is to know what it's going to be like when there is no more. What can we do so that we don't turn into a Mars or Venus? What can we do now to stop it from happening?
 Good, so you're making connections to maybe the video when they talked about the future if there's an issue with our magnetosphere. Potentially could we wind up like Mars? So, kind of getting a jumpstart to say where we are headed, future-wise. So, almost like a selfish need to figure out what's going on out there and where we might go. Anyone that hasn't spoken yet want to comment?
