 Alright. I heard the term velocity. So, I think that sounds pretty good. (teacher murmurs) Velocity of a skateboarder, the more important you're going to have. I like velocity. Keep talking amongst yourselves. I'm just kind of here to guide you along. Make sure the people here, I don't want anyone to have their back to each other. I know the room is difficult to do that, but if you guys could try to make sure you look at everyone inside of the group. I know it's difficult.
 Wait. The whole class?
 Oh, yeah. I want the whole class to discuss this.
 I thought you were doing like table and table? No, no, no. I want everyone to talk. Sorry.
 Okay.
 You guys can talk, just like I talk across the room. Feel free to do so. (students murmur)
 [Teacher] So, someone, when we ask their velocity.
 [Student] You need more length to the tracks.
 [Student] Steeper.
 [Teacher] You don't have to raise your hand. If you're looking in that person's eye, or you're looking in my eye, feel free to....
 [Student] You need a longer track.
 [Student] Distance. (students murmur)
 Is it the friction? (student murmurs)
 [Teacher] I will tell you that we're not going to look at friction as part of the system. (students murmur)
 Let's look back at that proposal for one second. Just want to make sure I didn't miss anything. (students murmur) It's always good to look at what they give us. (students murmur) Let's see. What science terms are in there?
 [Student] Quantitative. Qualitative.
 [Teacher] Okay.
 [Student] Energy.
 [Teacher] Oh. We got energy in there.
 [Student] Energy transfer.
 [Teacher] Oh, energy transfer. Okay. So, I think they want something to do with energy.
 It said quantitative. We should probably use the formulas for kinetic and potential energy, right?
 [Student] Do we have them?
 Yeah.
 [Student] We do?
 It's half mv squared, right? And then... (students murmur)
 What Christina said, we're going to be collecting data, quantitative, we'll probably have to use some formula that associates with this.
 I agree.
 Okay.
 [Student] Okay.
 [Student] He gave us the formula. (students murmur)
 E sub k 1/2 mv squared. Energy due to the gravitational field, E sub g mg. Alright. Let's make sure we know what each of these letters stands for. M, mass and the unit. Kilogram. G? (students murmur)
 Acceleration due to gravity.
 Lauren said force of gravity. (students murmur) Okay. You want me to write that in? Which one is it? (students murmur) Oh, its the effect from the gravitational field. Okay, that's fine. You will sometimes see textbooks that read gravitational force, but what are the units for this? (students murmur) Meters per second squared. So, that can be kind of confusing, if they're calling it gravitational force, and then they're saying meters per second squared because what do you think when you see those units?
 Acceleration.
 [Teacher] Acceleration, right. So, I'm going to put acceleration due to gravity. Okay. Good.
 [Student] H is height.
 [Teacher] Yeah, h is height. And that's in? (students murmur)
 Meters. Sounds good. Okay. So, now we go over here. Mass and kilograms and then, velocity, and that's in meters per second. Good. And then, if you remember that force doesn't like careless errors, so, maybe we should make sure that we get from these fundamental units the derived units. So, what are the units that we're going to have for E sub g and E sub k? (student murmurs) What is it?
 [Students] Joules.
 Joules. Oh, that's right. How do you remember that?
 [Student] I'm smart.
 Okay. That's good, too. (teacher laughs) (students murmur)
 Oh, there was a pretest that had that on there. That sounds good. (students murmur)
 Okay. Great. You're taking that prior knowledge.
 [Student] Energy is a jewel.
 Energy is a precious jewel. Alright. You want precious? Okay, there's jewels. There's semi-precious and there's precious. What are they, diamonds and rubies? So, energy is a precious jewel. Kilogram times a meter per second squared.
 [Student] Newton.
 [Teacher] Newton. Good. Newton times a meter?
 A joule?
 A joule. Right. Over here, mass and kilograms. Kilogram times meters squared over seconds squared, don't forget the square. Kilograms times a meter, again is a newton. Newton times a meter, that's going to be kilogram times a meter over seconds squared is a newton and then, multiply that by that meter, and, again, you get joules. Okay. We want to make sure that we don't, did everyone see how we got that joule there? (students murmur)
 Meter times another meter, right?
 [Student] Yeah.
 Because kilogram times a meter per seconds squared gives me a newton. Times a meter, remember this is meters squared, because of that.
 Oh, okay.
 Okay. So, you know the boss doesn't like careless errors, so let's make sure that we have the appropriate units. Okay. I don't mean to interrupt you guys. Why don't you continue with that? You've got some formulas here now.
 For potential energy, wouldn't mass and acceleration due to gravity be constants, so height is the only one that that could manipulate. So, if the height is the greater distance from the Earth then it would have more potential energy because they're directly proportional. (student murmurs)
 [Student] Yes.
 Let me ask you guys... I can't help but interrupt once in a while, right? But, I just wanted to... If I put this marker on the table, does this marker have potential energy?
 What is the reference point?
 Oh, oh, oh. The table.
 No.
 The center of our planet.
 Yes.
 Okay. So, I heard a fight, I think that's a good thing. (students murmur)
 The more danger, the more fun I thought, right?
 Yes.
 They're going to wear their headgear. Is this guy wearing any head, oh he's wearing head protection. (students murmur) Why is that important, by the way?
 So, the force doesn't apply to your head... (student murmurs)
 Okay, I like that. (student murmurs)
 Ah. Inversely proportional, right? I like that, yeah. So, it increases the amount of time, decreases the force. So, yeah, danger is an aspect here, but this guy seems like he's doing okay. He's got his headgear on, but, that's definitely, if you're designing a park, you want to make sure that the people that visit the park aren't going to be injured. There are going to be accidents with skateboards but they'll wear their gear. I'm going to step back and let you guys continue your thought earlier.
 [Student] Okay. So, how high do we want the...
 If we want it to have a bigger potential energy, transferring the bigger kinetic energy, we might want to have the height from the reference point, which is the ground and kind of higher.
 [Teacher] I heard reference point. Let me see if I can put a reference point on this. (students murmur) I did just put a little, click a button and get the reference point, okay?
 [Student] I think the thing should be on the ground. (student murmurs)
 [Student] Yeah.
 The weight's, like it's safer and it's possible. (students murmur)
 Do you want me to just to extend the... (students murmur) We've got a couple of things going on here. I'm sorry. A couple people said yes, they wanted me to put that on the ground? So, if those people could say that again, that would be great. Say that again? (students murmur) You want to put it on the ground. And, I think I heard a dissenting voice in the crowd. Someone that said something else?
 [Student] I did.
 Oh, okay.
 [Student] I said that if you increase the height, it's still possible to have it above the ground because you would have two supports on either side, technically, you'd be able to go back and forth. (students murmur)
 [Teacher] They haven't brought in the supports for this herculean innovation. That's right. I mean, I don't think it really is going to affect the design structure, so...
 Whether it's on the ground or...
 [Teacher] I'll just pull that down. That's fine. (students murmur) Yeah, I don't think that's going to make a difference. That might make it easier for the person to step off the track, too, when they're done. You know, this guy's going to get really tired. There's no friction, so he won't have to step off on the nice safe track.
 But, you notice how as long as the track is longer he doesn't go back up as high, so if you have... (students murmur)
 [Teacher] Alright. One at a time. I like this. Someone said something. Christina said something, and I think Karuna wanted to add to that.
 He goes just as high... (student mumbles) like there's no change because there's no friction. So...
 Yeah, then he doesn't go up to the top. (animated conversation) (students murmur)
 [Teacher] I could put the pie chart in, sure.
 And, can you start him at the top? (students murmur)
 [Teacher] Alright. So, I'm going to put the pie chart in and then you want me to, he's going to climb up the ladder, right? There's like, a pretend ladder here. And then, how's that?
 Yeah.
 [Teacher] Okay. Now, I noticed when I did that, something happened.
 The pie chart. (students murmur)
 Oh, yeah. Why? (students murmur) Sounds like a height there that's increasing, reference point is greater, I like that. Okay, I'm going to let him go. (students murmur) I don't know if I can do that, actually, but I will try. Yeah, we can play around with it.
 [Student] Make the sides taller, then he'll have a greater distance to travel and it'll actually be more.
 [Teacher] I don't know if I can, yeah, I don't think I can do that. I don't think it'll, it only allows me to click on the blue dots there.
 You have to add track to do that. (students murmur)
 You want me to pull those off to the side? Okay. (students murmur) Okay. So, you made a little bit different half-pipe. (students exclaim) Oh, no! Alright. So, you don't want to, look there's some thermal energy. What's going on with that? (students murmur) Okay. That might've happened. But why do I now see red in the pie chart? (students murmur) Yeah. There's a force that will allow for the energy to transfer. Good. Let's get him back on that half-pipe and you know guys, I don't think that it makes much of a difference in the design or engineering of this, whether we make the bottom hit the ground or have it up. So, I don't really think that is going to make much of a difference. But, we do need to collect some data, and start with this proposal, so... Where did we leave off? I think there was something that we were looking to collect there.
 [Student] Height.
 Okay, good. Let's continue with that, please.
 Well, measuring tape.
 Oooh! There is a measuring tape. I don't even see these things. Measuring tape, oh. It even says fet, okay good. So, how's that look?
 No, no!
 [Teacher] Well, what do you want me to do with it? (animated conversation) Going to the ground. (students murmur) That's not the ground?
 From the reference point.
 [Teacher] Oh, alright. I'm right on the reference point!
 Go up a little. (students murmur)
 [Teacher] So, what do you want me to measure? (animated conversation) Well, where am I going to measure? From what to what?
 The reference point to the highest point.
 [Teacher] Okay. I think the highest point would probably be the center of him, but they do have that nice, little red dot. Can we just agree that we're going to go with the red dot?
 Yes.
 [Teacher] Yeah. Why don't we go there?
 It can't be diagonal.
 [Teacher] Okay. (students murmur) Is that good?
 Yeah. (students murmur)
 [Teacher] Yes. (students murmur) Shut the lights off for this measure. Okay. (students murmur) Now, this measuring tape is a little tricky to work with. I wonder if there's any easier way for me to get this. (students murmur) Oh. Oh, that's pretty neat. I suppose I could use a measuring tape or I actually have that, so maybe that will help make it a little bit easier, if it could speed things up. So, what do we want to say for the height?
 Seven. (students murmur)
 I don't know if I'd say seven. (students murmur) So, we all agree it's somewhere between six and eight, yes?
 Yes. I'd say 7.2.
 And it does go over the seven a little bit, so height equals seven point... (students murmur) Two. Four. Six. Zero. (students laugh) You tell me or it's going to go forever! Let's start over again. Seven. (animated conversation) I don't think it goes to the half mark. (animated conversation) 7.1? (students murmur) Maybe we need a show of hands on this? Who believes it's 7? Who believes it's 7 meters? No one's raising their hands, that's good. How about 7.1? 7.1 meters? Alright. I got one person there. Now, I'm looking at this from an angle, right? And anytime you want to make a measure, you do want to have your eyes right above what you're measuring and obviously... (teacher mumbles) I'm just going to move over here, just so I can get, a little bit better. And then what else can I do to try to really measure this well?
 [Student] Pause it.
 Yeah. I think I'm going to pause the animation. Now, if I was making an actual measurement, I'd make sure my eyes were perpendicular to whatever I was measuring. What do we say about, oh, that's good. What do we say about these measures that we make in science?
 [Student] They should be, you're only as good as your measures.
 [Teacher] Yeah. You're only as good as your measures. What does that mean? Kristen?
 It means that if your measures are not precise and consistent, then everything else won't be precise and consistent.
 [Teacher] Can someone elaborate on that a little bit? Or do you want to add to that?
 No, someone else can elaborate on it.
 [Teacher] Okay. Are you sure? I can give you a little more...
 No. (Kristen murmurs)
 [Teacher] Okay. Let's see. Who haven't I called on at all today because I want to make sure I get everyone. (students murmur)
 You haven't called on Jill. (students laugh) (Jill mumbles)
 [Teacher] Alright. I'm sure she doesn't mind repeating it for you. (Kristen mumbles) I think you said, you're only as good as your measures. (Kristen mumbles)
 Because if your measures aren't precise, then all your other work that you're using the measures for... (Jill mumbles) Yeah, if you measure something for speed... (Jill mumbles) It would be wrong.
 [Teacher] Why?
 Well no, if you...
 [Teacher] It could be, you're right. If you make some poor measures, and then you go to graph it.
 No. If you take distance and then multiply it by time, then speed would be wrong. Like, if you had the wrong distance, then speed would be wrong, and then making it after that, your graph would be wrong.
 [Teacher] Well, it would be wrong, right from the perspective, you said, distance times time, and speed is distance divided by time. Did everyone hear that?
 Yeah.
 [Teacher] That's okay, though. You're saying, we don't want to get off the main idea here. If you're getting these distances wrong and then you're going to graph, your slope is going to be incorrect, yes? So, remember in science, we collect data. From that data, we put it in a nice data table to organize it and then we look at trends and patterns, graph it, look at trends and patterns. So, if everything starts from our measures, those next steps aren't going to be correct.
