 [Teacher] We have been talking about being a good speaker and a good listener. And in class, your teacher had you do an activity in your classroom where you sat across the way from a student and you read them a paper that you had written about dingoes. And then you had to stand up in front of the class and you had to present that. Do you remember that? Okay. So we talked about what it sounds like to be a good speaker and what it looks like to be a good listener, and your teacher and I worked on a rubric, and you got a grade for some different things about speaking. Do you remember what any of those things were that you got a grade on? Do you remember what she was looking for?
 Posture.
 [Teacher] Posture. What do you mean by posture?
 Not moving around.
 [Teacher] Okay. So when you're standing up in front of the class, what would you look like?
 Standing straight.
 [Teacher] Okay.
 Not leaning against the wall.
 [Teacher] Okay, good. Do you remember what else we talked about being a good speaker looks like?
 Voice.
 [Teacher] Okay. What about your voice? What should your voice do?
 Use your presentation voice.
 [Teacher] Yeah, like a presentation voice. Does it sound like this? What does a presentation voice sound like?
 Kind of loud, but not like an outside voice.
 [Teacher] Yeah, kind of loud, but not screaming, right? I like how you said not an outside voice. All right. What else for speaking? Do you remember what else?  One of them, I know, didn't really have to do with speaking, but it had more to do about your report. And it was did your report make sense? Right? Did what you write make sense? What about if I read my report really slow? Is that good?
 I can't remember...
 [Teacher] It starts with an "F". Fl-...
 Fluency.
 [Teacher] Fluency. Good. And what does that mean?
 You're not reading slow or too fast.
 [Teacher] Good, not too slow, not too fast, just right. Okay. So we have posture, voice, makes sense, fluency, do you remember what the last one was? You're not doing it right now.
 Eye contact.
 [Teacher] Good. All right. You want to make eye contact, right. Right. So when you're reading, you want to be able to do what?
 See the people.
 [Teacher] Yeah, look at the audience, right? Kind of look over your paper and make eye contact with people. Okay, now, if I'm a good listener, if I'm the person sitting in the audience, how can I show my classmates that I'm being a good listener?
 No distractions.
 [Teacher] Okay. So, don't distract them. What else?
 Don't be distracted by someone else.
 [Teacher] Okay.
 [inaudible]
 [Teacher] So you want to focus on the speaker. All right. How can you show them that you're focused on them. How would they know?
 Look at them.
 [Teacher] Yeah, look at them. Right? Okay, look at the speaker. And what else? What about at the end, when they're done?
 Ask questions.
 [Teacher] Good. Ask questions. Anything else?
 Sit up straight.
 [Teacher] Okay. Good. Could you tell them, maybe, how they did? What do we call that? Like feedback? What they did well on, or maybe what they could do better? Right? Okay. Put a star next to the ones that you think you already do a good job at. What do you think you do a good job at? Okay. You're focused on the speaker. All right, you sit up straight. Okay. You don't distract others. That's good. Okay. Now, out of these two, which one do you think you need to work on? Which one could you do a better job? That one. Okay. So maybe you could ask more questions at the end? Okay. All right. What about speaking? Which ones do you think you do a good job at already?
 Posture.
 [Teacher] Okay. You do a good job on that one.
 Make sense.
 [Teacher] Mm-hmm.
 Eye contact.
 [Teacher] Mm-hmm. Okay, so out of your voice and fluency, which one do you think you could do better? Which one could you work on?
 The voice.
 [Teacher] Voice. All right. So what do you think you need to do better with your voice?
 Speak up louder.
 [Teacher] Speak up louder? Maybe a little bit closer to, like, that presentation voice. Okay. On your rubric, it was what, five, four, three, two, one? Do you remember what you got on your volume?
 Three.
 [Teacher] A three, okay. So Miss Welch thought you could do a little better too, so maybe next time you could get a four or a five. Okay. So we have been talking about famous African Americans, and you had said that Walter Payton was somebody that you had thought was interesting. Right? All right. So we are going to look at some information about Walter Payton, and then, see if we can maybe do better on asking questions, and maybe, working on your volume. Okay?
 Cool.
 [Teacher] Okay. So, Austin, the other day, you and I met and we did a videotape of ourselves giving a little speech about Walter Payton, and the first one was I was speaking and you were videotaping me. And then we flipped it, and I videotaped you. So what I want to do is have us watch those and see how they turned out. And then we're going to use this rubric that you use in your classroom to kind of grade ourselves and see how we did and talk about what we can do better in the future. Okay? So we looked up some facts about Walter Payton, and let's watch my speech first. And I want you to be thinking about while you watch me, how did I do on eye contact? How did I do on my volume? How was my fluency? Did it make sense? And how was my posture? Okay, on a scale of one to five, five being, "Woo-hoo, Miss Suzer, you did a great job," and one meaning, "Miss Suzer, I didn't even see that at all." Okay? All right, you ready? All right. Let's see how I did. Walter Payton was one of the best running backs in the NFL. He played for the Bears after going to college in Mississippi. Sweetness has over 110 questions. But he died in 1999 of liver cancer. He's one of the best football players of all time. I wish I could have seen him play. He was my favorite football player. All right. So let's see. What do you think? Do you want to use purple or blue? You want to be purple? Okay. So how do you think I did on eye contact? What do you think? You think a four? Okay, why do you think a four? Did I give much eye contact?
 No.
 [Teacher] No? Oh, you're saying yes? I only saw myself look up once, so I'm going to give myself a two. I don't think I did a very good job. You're too nice. Alright. How was my volume? Pretty good? Okay. I think I'll agree with you there. How was my fluency or my rate? Good? Okay. I think I'm going to give myself a four because there were kind of parts where I thought maybe I could have talked a little faster. I don't know. All right. Did it make sense what I said? Yeah? Okay. And how was my posture? Was I standing up straight, looking ahead. Okay. I wasn't like swaying or rocking or anything? All right, so it looks like, overall, I think I need to do better on eye contact. And you thought I could probably do a little better on eye contact. And I think I could do a little better on my fluency. I think I could have maybe spoke a little bit faster. It sounded like I was kind of in slow motion. Okay. So now, let's watch how you did. And then we'll grade you. Okay? All right, so here you are.
 [inaudible dialogue as they watch video on laptop ].
 [Teacher] Okay. Let's see. All right. How do you think your eye contact was? A one? Why did you give yourself a one?
 Because I didn't really look up.
 [Teacher] You didn't look up at all, did you? Were you looking at your paper? What were you concentrating on?
 Paper.
 [Teacher] The paper? Okay. Yeah, I would say, it would be good, maybe, if you held your paper down at your belly button, right, and then you could look up. All right. How was your volume? Not evident? Okay. I'm going to give you a two and a half for your volume because we could kind of hear you. I think the reason we couldn't hear you is because you had the paper in front of your face. I think your voice might have gone out a little bit more. All right. How was your fluency, or your rate? What do you think?
 I didn't hear myself at all.
 [Teacher] Okay. All right. I thought it wasn't bad at all. I thought it was pretty good because when I could hear you, I thought it was probably like a three and a half or a four. You weren't reading really fast. You were reading so that I could understand you. It was just kind of hard to hear. All right. Do you think your facts made sense? Why did you give yourself a two?
 I don't know. I had some [inaudible] in there and... I don't know.
 [Teacher] All right. Because you could only hear parts of it? You think if your volume had been better, you could have heard more? Okay. All right. I'm going to give you a four because I think it made sense. All right. What about your posture? How was your posture? Man, you're being hard on yourself. Why did you give yourself a one?
 Because I wasn't, I was like...
 [Teacher] Wiggling around a little bit?
 Yeah.
 [Teacher] Okay. Well, I'm not going to be that hard. I'm going to give you a three. Okay, so if we were going to do this again, maybe in front of your class, or in front of your teacher, or something, what would you do differently next time? Now that you've seen yourself, what would you do differently? Maybe the things you got ones on, right? Okay. So, maybe looking up, over your paper. Maybe your volume. Yep. Maybe working on your fluency or your rate, maybe a little faster, right? What about your posture, what would you do differently?
 Stand straight.
 [Teacher] Okay. Try to stand still. All right. So, it looks like we have a couple things we could work on, right, for next time. Okay. Sounds good.
