 Yeah, the oil. Okay, so we discussed that one. So Maddie is going to write  down about the peanut butter.  What the observation was. At the first observation it was 9  centimetres.  And it has grown. In Joshua's words, it has grown.  Good. And you're gonna do that for all three of them.
 Okay, um, The peanut butter, 
 No, we just did the peanut butter  Oh no, I mean the banana, it's... it's... It's grown like 4 inches taller Its like 1, 1 and a half inch taller.
 Its like one and  half inches. 
 Okay what is that? Look. Its like 9 and a half.
 10 and a half - 9, 10 and 12. That's 1, 2, 3  
 We're looking at the bananas, yeah ... wait that's half an inch Alright, so did you get that? Were the Cheetos  recorded? Okay, good. Alright, so now we've got... let's look here. Josh go  ahead and read number 9. Compare and record the results from all three fat  absorb- absorption- observations. Observations Observations, okay, so we're going to look at all three  here we've got our data laid out here. Look at your Cheetos. Um the first time Cheetos was eight and a half inches,  the second time it was 10 and a half inches, and the  last time it was 12. 12 centimeters. So what does that mean? Joseph what do you see when  you see those numbers going like that? Um its like growing because every time you check one its  like  a little bit bigger and it gets a little more inches on  and it gets a little bit more big.  So basically the longer that the Cheetos sat on the  paper towel,  the more fat and oil is absorbed into the paper towel,  right? Okay? So um Josh, if you'll just go ahead and write that down  about the Cheetos.  And Hailey, what did you notice about the next food?  The apples? Um, two times it stayed the same and one time it got  a little bit smaller.
 Just got a little bit? 
 Yeah Okay, it says two are the same and one is just a little  bit different.  And that could have been just, um where is our centimeters?  It could have been just human error where we just sort  of measured a little bit off.  Okay? Um, 'cause if you look at this apple sample here,  there isn't really any coming out of the green  circle, is there?  So nothing was absorbed from the apple. Did you see that? Okay, alright? So if you'll add that to our list  that we've noticed, we observed.  Shemaire you look at those potato chips.  I'm going to leave that one here.  Tell us what the overall pattern was with the potato chips. The potato chips Talk real loud for me. Um ok, the potato chips, they, like, changed each time.  Like, the first time, it was 5, the second time it was  eight and a half and this time it was 7. And what are those that you are talking about?  what units of measure? Centimeters
 Centimeters, okay. So we want to make sure we get  centimeters written in on there okay? 
[Student] uh-huh Alright, so what does that tell you about potato chips? Um, that its not like that fat, it doesn't got that much  grease in it 'cause, pretty much it showed like, it was lower and then it got a little bigger  then it just got a little bigger. Okay, so comparing the three here, what do you notice?  Pretty much that this one has more fat than these two. It looks like with this observation, just this one here  in class today,  and later we're gonna do- we'll look at the food labels of  potato chips and Cheetos. But right now, just on our observations, it does look  like the Cheetos have more fat right now, okay?
 But when we start reading, its gonna be potato chips? 
 Oh that leads us in 
 [Shemaire] It's gonna be Cheetos! So go ahead, so um let's look at number 10,  read that for us Josh. What can you conclude from the observations and recorded  data?  Which snack has the most, or least amount of fat? So you all will come and discuss that together and then you can answer that question right there.  Put most and least. Fine, okay? I'd say the apples have the least amount of fat.  And the potato chips have the least... ... the apples have the least amount of fat, then the  potato chips second and the Cheetos is last. And why do you think that might be? Why do you  think the banana has expanded the most? Because its... - I don't think its because  of the fat in the bananas and getting in... Talk loud I don't think its because of fat with the bananas that's  getting oil on the paper towel, because bananas are pretty healthy and they don't really  normally have fat in them. Yeah, yeah Okay, so that's your background knowledge. You are aware  of that. What were you gonna say?
 It's like, its not fat or oil, its like its just water 
 Maybe water  [Student] absorbed in it... What prediction would you make, if we were to let this sit  over night, to where like, the water would have time to dry up.  What would you predict this paper towel would look like  tomorrow? Let me go with Tray? It would be all wet and soggy.
 So you think it would actually be more wet? 
 Yeah. 
[Teacher] Okay, Emily what do you think? Well I would think that the way it is now, that the paper  towels are gonna end up like that  and the bananas would get all... and more disgusting and... Okay, does anybody think that the banana might-  that the wet, watery part might dry up? Maybe I think it would expand a little bit more and then  start drying until the water is out of the banana and then the banana starts to dry out too. Okay, well alright. We'll actually leave that one  out and see, and we'll check on it tomorrow. And see what it's doing. And we'll kind of answer  our own question there, okay? Okay, wait we're not finished,  what do we say about the banana? You have to talk louder though The banana I guess - the banana, like expands  the wetness.  It expands a couple centimeters, like a half a centimeter. Good use of centimeters. I like how you're using  the actual mathematical term there.  The centimeter is good.  Okay while she is writing that, I'm going to let Tray  go ahead and read that next question,  Well, if you can see it.  Maddie, will you let him read that so we can kinda  be thinking while your finishing up there? Um, what can you conclude from the observ-  observation and recorded data?  What snack has the most most and least amount of fat? Well, um, as my opinion, I would think that, the  banana has more fat than the peanut butter and the least amount of fat would be the fudge. Okay, Josh? Well, I would think that the fudge has the least amount,  'cause it has the least amount of absorbed like, grease and fat. But the banana has like  ... all this oil, water and all that, like, sinking into it. Okay, Maddie? I think that the peanut butter has the most  amount of fat because um  like I said earlier, the bananas are more healthy  than the peanut butter and  it's probably just water and this is like oils and  salt and stuff,  making it more greasy and that's probably more  fat absorbing into the paper and  then the fudge hasn't had very much at all so  I would say it has the least amount of fat. I would agree with like most of y'all because the banana  and the peanut butter is like,  has like, a lot of wetness in it. And the fudge  has like, a little bit of wetness.
 Like a centimeter 
 Yeah, about a centimeter. But also the bananas could have the least amount of fat  because they are healthier and that's probably just water. Compare the results to the original group hypothesis.  Our hypothesis is that the potato chips will  have the most fat. 
[Teacher] Talk loud Our Hypothesis is that the potato chips will  have the most fat.  Our group decided this after discussing Cheetos  versus potato chips deep fried and  adding salt and Cheetos are made out of cheese so  cheese is made out of milk from cows, which is healthy. Oh, wow, lots of thought went into that. Okay, so read that question again, how do we compare  our original hypothesis to what we've discovered  now in our research?
 We were wrong. 
 Say that again. 
[Shemaire] We were wrong. Okay, so according to our data, what did you find?  Why do you say we were wrong?
 Because, like the Cheetos, they had like  a bunch of fat, grease and stuff. 
 [Teacher] Talk louder And the potato chips, they like barely have any. They had some, but it wasn't quite what you were  thinking, right?
 What were you gonna say Josh, we're gonna  come right back to you. 
 [Josh] No
 Yes Joseph?
 She thought it was the Cheetos,  which we thought it was that and afterwards now since  we found out that it was probably the cheese [mumbles]... 
 Talk loud
 When it gets stuck on you fingers, it's all wet and  oily and everything.  - [Teacher] Okay
 No, she's the one that said cheese was healthy.
 Okay well think about it, some cheeses are healthy,  this is more of a dehydrated powdered cheese  added to the Cheetos, right?  Go ahead, Josh, what were you gonna say?
 She said that maybe the salt from the potato chips  could've dried up the grease, maybe. 
 [Teacher] Okay, Hailey? Pretty much what Josh said. It's the same. Okay, so you just agree with that?  So Josh, maybe  you could all just write down some of what you all discussed. About the change from what our prediction or our  hypothesis was to what we found now? Okay?  And Hailey if you want to go ahead and start some  of our discussion questions. Okay? Based on our discoveries from today,  what snack has less fat? Joseph?
 Um apples
 Claire? 
 [Claire] Definitely apples.
 Josh?  
 Apples
 Yeah, apples.  When you go home today, what snack would you choose based on the data collected today and why? Joseph? I'd probably do the apples because it pretty much has  no fat which we learned, and  I'd probably want to eat no more Cheetos  since I found out how many fat was in them now. 
 Never again? 
 [Joseph] Never 
 Oh, you wouldn't live would you? 
 Very good Hailey, say that again?
 [Hailey] I wouldn't eat Cheetos very often You wouldn't eat Cheetos as much, but in  limited quantities, right?  Okay, very good. Shemaire which snack would  you choose? I'd probably have to say apples too because  they are healthy either way and  I love Granny Smith apples, they're my favorite. Oh good, good, healthy snack eater! I'm going to have to say now since we found out Cheetos,  how much fat it has.  Then we start thinking about how much fat is actually in there,  we probably don't know how much fat is in there. Right. Well we're going to look at those food labels  closer now that we've investigated these and see  which one really does have more fat,  the potato chips or the Cheetos.
