 Emotions.
 Is emotions, that's so right. Kippa, were you going to say something else?
 In this picture, he uses lots of texture to create, like when he's doing the sunflowers, he uses texture to show the light going on.
 Right, and how did he show that texture, did he, how did he apply his paint?
 Sometimes he would squirt it straight from the tube onto the canvas because he wanted to do it fast.
 Sometimes he would squirt straight from the tube and he would paint so thick, Vincent would, that you could almost feel it, feel the texture. And emotion, like Ozea said. Emotion was huge for Vincent. If he was happy, he painted bright. If he was sad, he painted sort of dark. How about our man Pablo Picasso? What movement, Logan, is he?
 Do you know the move--
 Cubism.
 [Teacher] Cubism. And why, do you guys know what the characteristics are of cubism? Anybody besides Mr. Logan, anybody else know? But thanks Logan for raising-- What are you thinking, what...
 Using geometric shapes to make things.
 Using geometric shapes, that's right. He was very involved in geometric shapes and you can even see, and flattening the shapes and flattening his color. Where Van Gogh used his color to really be part of his painting and it could be bright or it could be dull or a mixture of the two. Picasso used very flat shapes of color and you can even see that in his self-portrait. I wanna put up the work. Let's start with our man Vincent again. Let's take a look at-- See where my hand... Oooh! You can see all the wrinkles in my hand.
 [Student] No way!
 Isn't that cool? Okay! Sorry, don't mean to keep fooling around. So let's talk about this. Let's talk about these two paintings, guys. What do you guys, and let's see if someone else maybe can answer or talk about something. What do you see, do you guys see a difference between these two paintings right here? Anybody, somebody besides Kippa, Carina?
 That it kinda has to deal with his emotion, like where the boats are, I feel like, what I'm feeling is that he was kinda depressed and very sad because the skies were kinda dark and stuff. And then at the sunflowers he's really happy and bright and...
 That was good, Carina. Okay, Elijah, did you wanna? Was that about what you were gonna say? You were gonna talk about the sadness. What colors, like do you think that if... Go ahead, Elijah.
 He could've been in the boat because on the computer the boats were really bright colors but the sky was darkened more but the boats were all light yellow and dark, light red and all these other bright colors.
 Right, and I remember you saying that when you showed me with the picture from the computer, that's why I looked at you because you were talking about he must have been conflicted with his emotions, wasn't that what you were saying?
 Yeah, he was feeling both happy and sad 'cause the sky was darkened and then the boats were really bright and the sea was darkened too.
 Right, that's good. Okay, Jose, what did you wanna say?
 He's sort of like there too, but the boats might be out to sea. Like one's out to sea but one's not, but torn. I don't know how many are already but... Three are out, in. I don't know how many are out.
 There's four that are here and then there look like four that are out.
 I think that's the other-- (student coughing)
 Okay but what were you going to say... Oh you're right, three. Well what were you gonna say about them?
 I'm guessing three, two or three were the family of six kids and the mom and a dad. But they could only take three because there's only enough for... There's enough room for only three boats or three people. But they only wanted their own boat, two or three of them were, but three didn't go because they didn't know what to do or anything but the other three did.
 Interesting, that was sort of your story behind the picture that you saw?
 Kind of.
 Yeah, I like that, I like that. Trevor, what're you gonna say?
 It's kinda like medium of a position between sad and happy because the sunflowers, they're mostly up but looks like they're starting to droop. They're starting to die.
 [Teacher] That is good, I like that.
 He might be like, "Oh, I'm happy for a while but "I'm starting to feel back down."
 [Teacher] Nice. Did you wanna say something?
 I would like to say one has different types of (mumbles) One looks more real. Those ships on the top look a little bit more real than the...
 Than the bottom, more realistic than this picture? He really pushed his color lips in the sunflowers, I think. Does anybody know, what were you gonna say, Elijah?
 You can see in the sunflower one like at the very top there's bright yellow but when you go down a little bit it's orange and then at the very bottom it's dark green. Like right there.
 Yes that is very true. That is very good.
 The storms and the sunflowers is trying to say that nothing is never everlasting.
 [Teacher] Wow, Kyle... (student mumbles) Happiness is never lasting and what was the last one? I'm moved by that opinion. Go ahead, and what was the...?
 So in the flowers, the flowers are happy but then they start to droop and die.
 Because happiness can be fleeting. And we know-- Oh, does anybody know, what was the political, was there any political things going on? The political mood or the setting. Where was Vincent from, did you guys find that in your research? He stayed in France, is that where he studied? Is that what you guys are telling me?
 [Students] Yeah
 That was sorta the hub of his movement, we'll say. Any other facts that you guys know about the artwork that's up? You can look on your research papers to see. Or anything-- Go ahead, Emily.
 I think that the actual emotions of these paintings don't really connect at all with the political mood because when he painted the bright sunflower one so awesome it was kind of a dark time in France. So really I don't think they were much of a...
 Really affected him? What were you...
 Going along with Emily, maybe he was just so dull that, or maybe it was coming to an end when he painted them. Because if there was a war or some sort of bad time and it was coming to an end he was probably starting to feel better about it because it was ending. So it depends, maybe he was going through things like maybe a very happy thing happened in his life then. Because he didn't have the happiest of all lives so...
 He didn't. We've even talked about that. Do you guys remember when we talked about how Vincent Van Gogh suffered a little bit mentally? He was a little...
 Crazy.
 Crazy and in and out of mental institutions.
 Yeah so maybe something good happened. 'Cause his life was not very happy. So most of his pictures are... No, not most of them but quite a few of them are actually quite dull. But you can tell when he's going through joy because he has those bright colors coming in. Like the boats, you can see a little bit of happiness in them but the majority of it is dark and sort of sad. And then if you look at the sunflowers they're all bright and dreamy. I mean yes, this is a few dark bits but I think that's probably a time when he was going through something that was better in his life.
 Guys, this is really great. I love all your comments. Logan, I'm gonna take one more and then I'm gonna tell you something. What, go ahead Logan.
 I thought maybe that he was painting it and then something happened. Like maybe he heard that war was breaking out or something. And then he started painting it sad.
 I have a question.
 [Teacher] I think that-- You've got something really important, hon?
 Yeah, so he never really stopped a painting in the middle. When he started he finished. He never stopped. Because if the light changed it would totally change the picture.
 [Teacher] That's so true. That is very true. And you guys know that-- Jose, is it okay if I speak real quick and then we'll go back because we wanna talk about Picasso too for a minute. You guys know that Vincent used to live with a painter. This is my fun fact. Not really fun I guess. But a fact about Vincent. He lived with a painter, Paul Gauguin. This was when he was in and out of mental institutions. And they had a fight and he became so upset, you guys know he cut off his ear. And I showed you that one picture of him is a self-portrait of him with his ear cut off. You guys remember that? And the other important thing I wanted to tell you was that he didn't sell any of his works during his lifetime but he did sell one of his paintings after... After he died they sold one of his paintings for $8,000,000,000. Remember that? It was the most expensive painting ever sold at the time. Okay, now let's talk about... And Van Gogh people, if you guys wanna talk about Picasso you can, but let's give the Picasso teams some time here. This is... And I'm sorry the lighting is not the best. But who knows what the name of this painting is? Marie.
 [Marie] Is it Three Musicians?
 Three Musicians. And it was done by who?
 [Students] Pablo
 Pablo Picasso. Does anybody know where Pablo Picasso was from? Let's see someone other than Mr. Logan. Travis.
 [Travis] Barcelona.
 [Teacher] Barcelona. Where's Barcelona, you guys?
 Spain.
 [Teacher] Spain.
 [Student] I got my Barcelona jersey.
 Alright and who knows, Rudy, do you happen to know... And he's like, "Uh-oh, I'm on the spot! Ooo!" Do you happen to know what movement or style he painted in, Pablo Picasso?
 In Cubism?
 Cubism, that's correct. And we did go over, what were the characteristics of cubism real fast? Anybody? Mr Logan.
 [Logan] Geometric shapes.
 [Teacher] Geometric shapes and what else?
 They were flat.
 [Teacher] What was flat?
 His pictures.
 [Teacher] But what element--
 His painting the colors.
 [Teacher] The colors were flat. Thank you. Okay, let's have some opinion about what you see up here. The Three Musicians, does anybody have... Randy, do you have any, how do you feel about it, honey? What do you think about it?
 I don't know. It doesn't seem like it's in a down mood 'cause music is usually a happy sort of thing. So it seems like a happy kinda picture.
 [Teacher] Kind of a happy fun picture. Pablo, he wasn't so concerned about emotions when he painted. He maybe was influenced by the political setting of his time. Does anybody know what was happening in Spain at the time? What are you thinking?
 [Student] Civil war.
 There was a civil war. So maybe he was a little bit affected by that. He also traveled. Does anybody know where he traveled to, Rudy? To go and study the art forms of...
 Paris? He went to Paris because it was of all the artwork and stuff.
 So he went to study there and then where else?
 [Student] He went to Africa.
 [Teacher] He went to Africa and he really became obsessed with African masks. And so he did start using that as an influence in his painting. Carina, what were you gonna say, darling?
 Oh, I was thinking it's kind of like a mix of emotions 'cause it has so many colors. There's bright orange and yellow and then if you look deeper, there's a blue and a black and it kind of just grabs your attention.
 [Teacher] It's attention-grabbing, isn't it? 'Cause of all the contrasting. I think more in his is the contrasting colors. You can see the blue and orange right next to each other. Those are colors that lie opposite each other on the color wheel and they make for very bright, they totally stand off each other. Right, the blue and the orange. I can't remember what-- Oh, they're complementary colors. I couldn't remember what that was. Right, so that's why. And I think his color contrast says a lot. His flat colors and they're bright and he puts them right next to each other. What do you think about this picture, Robert? Do you like it?
 Yeah.
 [Teacher] Do you know why you might like it or you don't like it?
 I like the picture, like... yeah.
 [Teacher] Well you and Maria are talking about doing, remember you were talking about making your own picture? You wanna tell us about that, what you guys wanna do? For your own picture? And you're doing the style of Pablo, aren't you?
 Yeah.
 [Teacher] So what do you think you guys are gonna do?
 Have a picture of me and my brother and a picture of the Three Musicians on a porch.
 [Teacher] You wanna have the Three Musicians be in a picture with you and your brother? And Maria, are you gonna--
 Not on a porch. On a deck.
 That's what I was gonna say.
 [Teacher] And you guys are gonna, are you guys gonna reduce it down to geometric shapes? The picture?
 Yeah.
 Try to.
 [Teacher] Good, good. Do you guys have anybody-- Oh, what were you gonna say, Elijah?
 It makes me think about it, because there's so many twists and turns and curves and things. Kinda like if you look hard enough you can see 'em but when you just look at it you're like, "Whoa."
 Right, when you first look at it, you're like, "Whoa, what is that? Are those people? Are those shapes? "There's lots of curves and turns."
 [Student] At first it's a little confusing.
 At first it is a little confusing, isn't it?
 [Student] When you actually pick a name and you actually try to look for 'em you can actually see what it is.
 Right, if we didn't tell you it was the Three Musicians you might not know at first.
 You can kinda tell because of that one right there. That thing, yeah.
 The instrument here. And the guitar.
 And then the paper with the two...
 The sheet music.
 The sheet music, you could kinda tell it was about the musicians.
 What were you gonna say?
 When you first look at the painting, your eyes are immediately drawn to the first guy in blue's clarinet. Whereas if you peeked a minute and look at it you can actually kinda see instruments like they were saying. At first, when you just... but instead you just see a whole bunch of colors and then you look at it and it kinda starts to form.
 It does start to form. What were you gonna say, Emily?
 I think that in my
