Okay. But before you check over what  you need to make sure you do? All of it. Get it completed, right?  Okay, awesome. So your goal would be to... Get homework completed. 
Wonderful! Okay! Excellent! Okay! Now I brought  some extra markers and stuff here because  I know you're a visual learner, that you do a good job remembering things that you figured out on your... learning styles test. So this is for you to do. You can choose any colors to make  it look however you want. Okay? So you've got your goal and then we need to figure  out why is that goal important. So your goal is to Get all homework done. Excellent. And why is that important? Because when  you're in fourth grade you don't get all  your homework done and you on fence and when you get on the fence, I've been there  a couple of times and is not very fun, and for the good achievement you get to go to Hot Wheels. hmm... So if you don't do your homework, You're on a boring fence. Okay! You have to stand  by the fence at recess. And if you do do your homework, you go to Hotshots. Homework Hotshots. And that is... What do you have to do to  qualify for Homework Hotshots? Do all your homework for all the...  Oh! Wow!! So... All your homework  throughout the nine weeks and then you get to go.. get to be a Homework Hotshot, which means you  go to Hot Wheels and enjoy the day skating. Excellent! Okay! So you just brought  up a good point. umm... So this goal is important because not only do you  not want to stand by the fence, and you want to  be a Homework Hero. What's going to happen  if you do your homework? You go to Hot Wheels. You go to Hot Wheels and what do you think... What effect is that  going to have on your report card here? If you're doing all your homework,  what's going to happen to those grades? You get all the grades go up. like the 100 - 200. That's right. Very good. All right. So, go ahead, write that down. Why  you think homework is important. Excellent So this goal is important because  you can always get good grades. and homework is  a way that teachers help the students  reinforce the things that they are learning in class. So that's an excellent  way to get good grades. Okay! So we know our goal  and we know why it's important. So let's think about what kind of rewards we're  going to get for reaching that goal. You get achievement awards. You go in a limo with the principal. And you go out to eat. and Hot Wheels too, right? So those are some long-term goals over the next nine weeks. You get to complete your  homework the next nine weeks. You get to go to Hot Wheels and might even be on  the principal's honor roll to take the limo ride. Pretty cool, huh? Okay! So that's here.  We've got Don't forget one thing, that you get to drink soda while you're going. You do? I didn't know that. I've never been in there. I've never been in the limo, but I heard. Oh, my goodness! Well, that certainly is a nice incentive, something to motivate, huh? Good! So that's kind of  a long-term motivation. We've got to work  hard all these nine weeks to accomplish that, right? Okay! So we've got here. When I meet my  goal for the quarter, Quarter is another way of saying  the nine week time period. you will what? What do you get to do if you do all your homework  over the nine weeks? I will go in a limo. Well, that's for principal's honor roll, which is definitely an option. What's specific for homework? umm... When I meet my goal, for the quarter,  I will go to Hot Wheels. Go to Hot Wheels.  Awesome! Excellent. So the nine weeks sometimes it can feel like long way away, can't it? Okay! Because nine weeks is not easy. They are not easy  to do your homework Because it's a long  time before you go to Hot Wheels and we only  have eighteen weeks in school. So it's easier sometimes to stay motivated  and work towards a goal if you have some incentives that come on  more of a short-term basis. Meaning that instead  of waiting all nine weeks to go to Hot Wheels,  which you will get to do, if you meet your goal. Let's think of something that  we can do maybe, once a week. That would be  a good incentive for you Study. Okay! Well, studying is  part of your homework plan. Let's say that you study and you turn all your... you do all your homework and at the end of the week  when I check in with you, when I check in with Miss. Butler, and I check in with your granny, and I'd say, So how did Annamarie do? Did she  get all her homework done? mm hmm.. And they say- Yes, she did. What do you think might be something that you're willing to work towards here at school that would be  a reward once a week? I will come to you  and I will help you. You'd like to help me?  All right. So could we agree that let's say, I check in on Fridays with your teacher and your granny and you to find out-  did she do her homework? What are they going  to tell me? -Yes. Yes And then on Fridays you  get to come and help me. mm hmm.. That'd be wonderful. Now I teach a first grade class every day at 12:10. I know you do a really good  job helping out at home with your niece But she... I do not get to see her Monday, Tuesday,  Wednesday, Thursday But on Friday, I do. Because my mom...  My mom watches her. And sometimes when my sister and I and the baby's not here we actually look at photos of her because we really miss her and  we talk to her on phone. Awesome! She's lucky  to have an aunty like you. Awesome! Well I know because you do  such a good job caring for her that you'd be  an excellent helper for me and my first graders. Will that be  a good goal for you? Okay! So our next section here. Can you read this? When I meet my goal  for the week, I will get to go to... go to Hot Wheels, I think. Well, Hot Wheels is  for the whole nine weeks. But each week.. Remember our... What we're working towards on  Friday, that you get to come... Help you. Right. So you get to  come help Miss. Charles.  on Fridays Okay! You have very nice handwriting. Thank you. Okay! 
So do you. Thanks. Okay. So this goal is something that you're in charge of, right? You're in control  of achieving this goal. But you're not in it alone. Because there's of a lot of people  who want to see you reach that goal. and to see you doing an awesome job at school. So who are some of the people the adults in your life  who are on your team who can be helpers for  you as you reach this goal. My grandma, my aunty,  my uncle, my mom and my sister. Wonderful!  You have a lot of people. So these are people at home that can help you  reach your goal, all right? So let's go ahead and put those  down for supporters at home. Awesome! All right. So you've  got a lot of people supporting you at home. I've got five. And how about here at school? Who's on your team? Miss. Butler and Miss Charles. You've got it girl.  I can't wait to support you on this goal. Okay! So the people  who can help me at school is Miss. Charles Is it okay if I put in Miss. Ficker? my assistance teacher,  because she helps too. Definitely. That's a great person to add. And so are you. Thank you. Okay! I just realized something. What's that? All these teachers  name has a "R" in it. Miss. Charles,  Miss. Butler, Miss. Ficker. It's a good attention  to detail you have there. Okay! So we know  that our goal is to get all my homework completed. Okay! And it's important because you can always get good grades. Excellent. Now on the short-term if you're doing a great job getting  your homework done every week. Each week you will get to come help... come help  Miss. Charles on Friday. Excellent. And I will know that  you're doing a great job because... you can ask Miss. Butler, my grandma and me. That's right. Okay. And over the whole nine weeks when you do a good job getting all that homework done what's your reward? I get to go to Hot Wheels. Awesome. And then although you're  the one in charge of this goal, there's a lot of  people on your team. Who are those people  on your team from home? My Mama, my granny, my sister, my Uncle TJ and my aunty (unintelligible) People on you're side. All right! And then when you're  here at school, who's on your team? Miss. Charles, Miss. Butler, Miss. Ficker Awesome. All right. So what do you think? How's the school going to go? It's going to be great,  because I will follow all of these. Good. and I'm here to help, okay? All right.  Well, I think the first step towards achieving this goal is to make sure that we  manage our time really well. And I know we  talked a little bit before about kind of your month. We looked at  the month of February and figured out what big things you have coming up. What portions of  the day you spend here at school or at Church, and what you do, how you help  out taking care of your niece. So that's the month of February. So what we're going to do  today is really focus on this week and make a plan. So what I've done here is based on the information  you told me before, we've got this week starting with today Monday, February 7th and you will notice I've the time of  day all the way from 6 in the morning throughout the day till Yeah, 10 at night. So I have these spaces blocked off So what are you usually doing Monday, Wednesday,  Friday from 7 to 4? Come to school. You're at school, right? So this whole area Is school? Is school. That's right. You're here at school. Will you write school? 
Sure. Sometimes it's easy for  me if I just draw a line to show that. Like that. Okay. School. Okay! So knowing that you're in school  from 7 to about 4 O'clock, and we also need  to think about some other regular things that  you do during the week. So you told me before that...
