 [Teacher] Okay. Now, when we sang that music scale, we were... We were actually stepping up. We were going from low to high. And if you'll look over at this, you can tell these were the notes that we were singing, from low to high. The first note was a line note. Let's speak it together.
 [Together] Line note, space note. Line note, space note. Line note, space note. Line note, space note.
 Good job. Those notes were stepping. And if you'll notice here, I've got carpet squares, and I have them with line note and space note.
 Line note, space note. Line note, space note. Line note, space note.
 Good job. That's what we sang when we sang our scale, and that's the notes that you're seeing up there, are those line notes and those space notes. All right. I'd like for us... Will you please come and find one of those carpet squares and sit behind it? Sit behind the carpet square of your choice. And let's go ahead and sit up tall on our knees. Sit nice and tall on your knees. And the next person, come in and find a carpet square, sit behind it, behind that hand chimes. And I don't think we'll need... We'll need one more person. The next person.
 [Boy] What about me? 
 Five. Good job. All right. Now everyone, even if you're sitting in your chairs, you need to practice with me, because we're all going to be playing the hand chimes today. Do not touch your hand chime just yet. Let's all just practice. Start off with your hand up. Put your hand chime down a second. We're going to just practice with our arm only. And it's going to be important that you do a good wrist action because that's going to make a difference in the way that it sounds. All right, watching me. Hold, and again. Hold. Hold. Asanti. Hold. Hold. Okay, stop. Now, people down here, pick up your hand chime, and let's see if we can get that technique going. Get ready? ♪ [music] ♪  One more time. Good, Now let's... Just place your fingers there under the bottom to get it to stop. Good. Now, when I point to each person, by yourself, you will play the music scale. So do not play until I point to you. Looking at me, we begin. Start with the low C. ♪ [music] ♪ Good job! Let's do it again. That's the scale. And these notes are stepping because it's line note, space note, line note, space note. Any time you've got two notes beside of each other, that's a stepping melody. One more time, starting with the lowest C. ♪ [music] ♪ Good job. Now, put your hand chime down a second. We just heard a stepping melody. Any time that you have a line note and a space note beside of each other, two neighbors playing, that's a stepping melody. I want you to stand up, please, and I'd like for you to stand up. Take your hand chime, hold it, and... ♪ [music] ♪ That melody. Someone raise your hand and tell me. What did it do, Logan?
 [Logan] Skipping.
 Actually.
 [Child] It leaped.
 You're exactly right. It leaped. Because look at all these lines and these spaces that did not get to play. That's a leaping melody. Good job. London, do you remember what the difference was between leaping and stepping? I mean leaping and skipping? Can somebody help us? What's the difference between a leap and a skip?
 [Child] If you leap, it's more than a skip.
 All right. The leaping is more than the skipping. Skipping... All right. You sit down. Put the hand chime down. And you stand up. You keep remaining standing. Take your hand chime and you play. ♪ [music] ♪
 [Child] That was a skip.
 You are exactly right. That's a skip when you just skip over one place, one person. All right. Have a seat. You have a seat. And I'd like for, Ashley, you stand up. And what I want her to do is for four times I'd like you to play your hand chime, watching me. I'm going to let her try. ♪ [music] ♪ Someone raise your hand. What was that? James, what was that?
 [James] Repeating.
 You're exactly right. That was a repeating note. The one person, that one pitch played four times. All right. Sit down, please. Now, will you please stand? You stand and you stand. Watching me. All right. ♪ [music] ♪ Raise your hand, please. Tell me what was that? Devon.
 [Devon] Stepping.
 A stepping pattern. And it went from high to low. You're exactly right. Have a seat. Now, last week I gave you a piece of paper, and it was something that I wanted you to do to see if you understood about leaping, stepping, and repeating on the music scale. If you'll look over at the Smartboard, there is some notes there on Number 1, some notes on Number 1. And you were last week going to circle an "S" if it was a stepping pattern. You were going to circle an "R" if it was a repeating pattern. Raise your hand if you know what those notes on Number 1 were doing. Christian, put your hand chime down and you can come up, and circle whether those notes in the Number 1, if they were stepping, or if they were repeating. You're exactly right, Christian. How did you know that?
 [Christian] It was staying on the same note.
 Staying on the same note, very good. And thank you for walking around behind those hand chimes. Number 2. Akrista, can you walk around that other way and come right here? And why don't you show us. Put the hand chime down, please. Show us what the notes in Number 2 are doing. Let's see if it's doing a space note, and then a what?
 [Child]  Line note.
 Line note and then a space note. And she is exactly right. Those notes were stepping what?
 [Students together] Down. 
 Down. And Number 3. Thank you ma'am. Come this way, right around here. And she's looking at  those music notes, and she's going to be able to tell... They're right here, Number 3. All right. Let's say it with her. Line note.
 [Together] Space note. Line note, space note. Line note.
 Right here. Are they staying all the same?
 [Child] No!
 They staying all the same? What are those notes doing?
 [Child] They're stepping.
 You're exactly right. They're stepping up. Thank you, ma'am. And tiptoe back to your seat. Very good job. Now, I would like for the last two people, B and C. If you'll tiptoe to your seat, I'm going to call you back up here in a few minutes. The rest of the folks, you've got to be sitting up nice and tall, sit up tall on your knees. Let's see if they can play a very familiar tune. I want you looking at the very first note, the... The very first note, Keiani. You have that low C. And what do you notice about C? C, Keiani, what's your note going to be doing? What's the word when you have the same pitch? Re...
 [Keiani] -peating.
 Thank you. He has a repeating note. And G, Christian, what are you going to be doing?
 [Christian] Repeating.
 Repeating. Adam, what are you going to be doing?
 [Adam] Repeating.
 Repeating. So we have a lot of repeating notes in this song. Sit up tall on your knees. Sit up tall. Pick your hand chime up. We're going to see if we can play this familiar tune. Waiting. One, two, ready, sound. ♪ [music] ♪ Very good.
 [Child] That was "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star."
 It was Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star. You recognized it. All right. Put your hand chime down a second.
 [Child] I was listening.
 You heard the melody. All right. Now let me see. Sitting tall. I'm going to get someone that's sitting back there in a chair to help us out a little bit. I think I would like for Christopher. Will you come and point to three people that will be able to show us a stepping melody? Oh, don't raise your hand. We'll let Christian choose. Three people that would be able to play...
 [Child] Christopher.
 Oh, yeah, Christopher.
 Or you can call him "Chris."
 That's Christian.
 All right. Tell me which three people. Just point to them. All right. He's pointing to you. Stand up with your hand chime. We're talking about stepping now. Stepping. All right. Okay. Chris has pointed to these three, tapped them on the shoulder. Let's see. ♪ [music] ♪ If you think he picked out three folks that did play a stepping pattern, will you just gives a thumbs up silently?  You're exactly right he did pick...
 [Child] He did it.
 He did pick three. All right. Put your hand chime down and sit down. I'd like to call on Harmony. Will you pick two people that can show us a leaping melody? Leaping. So you can step behind them and just tap them on the shoulder. Leaping. Leaping. Leaping... Okay. Now, these two people are side by side. There's a line note, and a space note, and they're neighbors. Someone raise your hand and tell me what would they play? What would they be playing if they're neighbors? That would be a stepping. And I wanted a leap, like a frog leaps over a whole lot. So come and see if you can fix it. Real quick. Somebody needs to sit down. Who do you want to sit down? All right. Sit down. And pick somebody that will be a leaping melody. Like a frog leaping, leaps over a whole lot. All right. He stands. Take your hand chime. Play. ♪ [music] ♪ Now, she leaped over a space note and a line note. Give a thumbs up if you think she did it correctly. Yes, that is a leaping melody. Good. All right. Sit down. Hand chimes still on the floor. I'd like for you to tiptoe very quietly back to your chair. What we did in that song, we had several times that there was repeating notes. We had a few times where we had some stepping, side by side. And we had some leaping melodies. When we played the hand chimes it took several of us to be able to play those melodies, the melody. If you're playing a xylophone though, you could do it right by yourself.
 [Child] I can!
 I would like, Keiani, will you step around behind here? And Sheridan, you come over and sit behind the xylophone that you choose. And Dev, Devuan, Devuan, walk around here. Walk this way. And he's going to be the teacher. I want you to choose. Sit down on your knees so that they can see what you want them to do. Choose something that you want them to play, and let them see it. Turn it so that they can see it. All right. What do you want them to play?
 [Devuan] Step.
 Play a stepping melody. ♪ [music] ♪ All right. Good, and stop. Now, someone... Both of them did do a stepping melody. But he was playing right here. Can somebody help him out as to what might make it sound better?
 [Child] A hit in the middle.
 He says, "Hit it in the middle." Hit where the music notes are, those steps. Let's try it again. ♪ [music] ♪ Play 'em soft. ♪ [music] ♪ Great job. That is stepping. All right. Choose another one. Oh, now he wants a leap. ♪ [music] ♪ Good job! What do you want, Devon?
 [Child] Devuan!
 Devuan. Repeat. ♪ [music] ♪ Good job. All right, thank you. Put your mallet right there on the instrument. Lay it on the top. That will be quicker for today. And tiptoe back to your seat, walking around the instruments. I'd like for Wes H. to step around and find yourself a xylophone. Step around over here. Akrista.  Sit down tall on your knees. And what do you want them to play? Tell them. She wants you to play a repeating note. ♪ [music] ♪ Now those were both kind of high repeating notes, very high. Do you think you could play a low one? ♪ [music] ♪ Good job. Now how did you know that was going to be low, Akrista?
 [Akrista] 'Cause the little ones are higher. Bigger ones are low.
 You are exactly right. What else do you want them to do. She'd like a what?
