 [Teacher] who's done writing? Okay. Alright. Ok, couple of goals for this piece today. Here's where we're at here. One, clearly get the notes and rhythms down, because this Comstock piece, ok, and so is the second Middleston piece, three, the primo. So we'll do both those today, wanna get the notes learned, the notes and rhythms learned, but I also want to treat this piece today as though it were a sight reading piece, just like if we were getting ready for contest in March, do one of those little example pieces for sight singing. So we'll treat this in the same manner as that. Then I wanted to also, as we're reading the piece, take a look at how the structure of the piece can inform how we might go about learning it. You'll see some things here in a minute. Alright, so, if we take a look at the piece and we've already written solfège in. We take a look at the piece, what markings on the score can you see that might jump out at you that might be different? [inaudible] Repeats, okay, even before that, like right up by the title.
 [Student] Canon.
 [Teacher] Canon, what's that mean? (students talking over each other) The canon, okay, what's a canon?
 [Female Student] It's a round.
 [Teacher] It's a round, right, so you have one set of music, and then the same set of music follows it later, right? We do that in warm ups, okay. Alright, so a canon. So you think soprano and alto are in canon?
 [Male Student] It'd probably be women and men.
 [Teacher] Probably women and men, good, good observation. So we look at the structure, where might that canon begin? (students speaking) After a P at the bottom of the page, okay. So pick up to measure 11, alright. Okay, so what kind of material do the guys have there?
 [Male Student] It says we mix with the women's structure.
 [Teacher] Exactly, that same material that the girls do. So in our rehearsal, noting that this is a canon, at least to that point, how might we rehearse this or set it up so we can have success right away?
 [Female Student] Girls and guys sing their parts together.
 [Teacher] Girls and guys sing their parts together, good, easy. So if we do that, then what might something else be helpful for us to do? We're singing parts together... maybe pair up? Typically we get together and we chant, so let's do that first. Let's do the chanting just like we do for sight singing, so you can practice that. Okay, so what are our pairs gonna be? Soprano and tenor, so you have to move, and bass and alto. So starting at solfège, girls you start at the beginning, guys you simply start at measure... pick up at measure 11, okay? Go on and move. Yes, circle up right here. Alright, who's gonna be our leader? (chairs moving, students talking) Who wants to start us off?
 [Female Student] Alena?
 [Teacher] Alena? Okay, you can start us off. (students talking) Who's going to start the... you. Okay, there you go. Okay, good, go for it. Chant it, quickly.
 [Female Student] Let's start at the beginning, we are on the pick up to 4. So 1, 2, 3, and 4. ♫ So so mi fa so do re mi ♫ (students singing in a round)
 [Teacher] Okay so now we got to the end of that, go to measure 11 for the girls, and measure 21 for the guys. Go right there and start it again. So now girls you go measure 11, which is right where you finished, and guys go to 21. Same thing here that's a little bit different. (students talking)
 [Female Student] Alright, 1 and 2. (students singing) (students and teacher talking while others are singing)
 [Teacher] Let's all chant together in rhythm. Stay in your groups. Stay in your groups please, but we're gonna start with the sopranos and altos, and then we'll pick up with the guys at the bottom of the page. So start at the beginning everybody. 1, 2, and ready, and go. (students singing, teacher snapping to rhythm) Stop, okay, now guys you're gonna pick up there, and girls, you're gonna come in 2 beats later. Here we go, ready and go. (students singing) Okay, go right on the coda please. So we would've done the repeat, now we go back here. Go right on the coda please, right after the double bar, ready, and go. (students singing) 3, 4, fermata... cut off please. Sopranos, ready, and go. (students singing) Bass. (students singing) Okay, pretty good, we'll come back to that. That takes a little bit of fordating when you get together. Okay, go back to sections, let's do right in the... not your traditional sections. Let's keep the basses over here, altos over here, tenors and sopranos over here. So do two rows, back in your sections. Okay, so we're gonna do just like we chanted, we're gonna partner up, and we're gonna sing it at the same time. Okay, at the same time. So guys, you're starting in measure 11. Girls, you're starting in measure pick up to 1. Ready, and (students singing) ♫ Do do do do do ♫ Sing that first note please sopranos and altos, and (students sing single note) okay, tenors and (students sing single note) Basses, okay let's sing all at the same time right where your canon, first name of the canon is. Here we go, 1, 2, and ready, and sing. (students singing) Okay sopranos, sorry, altos and basses, here we go, ♫ Doo doo that's a mi ♫ Here we go, start that again, 1 and beginning and go. (students singing) Okay, go back to the do. ♫ Do mi so la ♫ Fa do la fa ♫ Sing that, ready, on the do, 1, 2. (students singing) Do that again, same spot, 1, 2. (students singing) Okay good, excellent reading, good for you. Now putting it together. Canon, lots of people think "oh canons are easy, no problem, it's the same thing." Except canons tend to be tricky, we'll see how it goes. Here we go, soprano and alto first. ♫ Do mi so mi do ♫ Sing your first notes girls, ready, and (female students singing) Here we go, 1, 2, and ready and go (students singing) Okay good, I was gonna stop you before then, but you did so well, so we kept singing. Good for you. Okay, so what happens at 21 for the girls? Well not, sorry, measure 11 for the girls? (student speaking inaudibly) Does what, something different, so what would we call it? B, or the counter melody of this. Okay. So it's kind of the same shape, but it starts on what pitch class instead of do? No, sorry, what did we first start at the beginning? So and mi, and this starts on do. So different pitch class, same shape, but it's singing the fifth lower, okay, for soprano. Okay good, let me hear the guys please. You did really well until we got to the B section. Let me hear, actually let's hear everybody do the B section. So guys, you're gonna start at 21, girls, you're gonna start at 11. Basses, it's just... No it's not, it's not different at all. ♫ Do here is do ♫ Find your first pitch.
