 Room 221. Students enter through a small entryway. To their right are inspirational displays and to their left is the entryway to a traditional darkroom. This classroom is shared by two teachers. Storage space is limited. In this room, I teach three sections of Photography, Advanced Placement Studio Art, and Advanced Placement Art History. As we open up into the main part of the classroom, storage areas are visible for each class' photographic prints, a whiteboard is visible with posted assignments, and storage space where students retrieve gloves and archival sheets for their negatives. As I pan the room, you can see heated dryers for prints and negatives clearly labeled and accessible. Bulletin boards are set up for project instructions, visual examples, and critique displays. Along the back of the room is a dry-mount press and negative developing chemicals with directions and safety instructions posted throughout. Hanging from above are art history displays created by students to aid in the analysis of modern art movements. Cabinets along the back of the room are clearly labeled for easy retrieval of student supplies. In the center of the room, the printing press is stored for AP Studio Art and set up to allow for safe and organized used. Along the right-hand side of the room, there is a drawing rack for students to store work-in-progress and a light table for the preparing and viewing of photographic negatives. There is an exhaust fan here for safety as well as a paper cutter with a safety guard to avoid accidents. The file cabinets are clearly labeled for storage of student binders. The large cabinet in the back of the room is locked to safely store blades and other potentially dangerous supplies. And at the front of the room are storage bins for students to retrieve missing work or work that they might have been absent to accept. And at the front of the room is the computer for student and teacher use. The projector screen lifts to reveal a whiteboard for demonstrations and instructions.
