 Stationary point.  Did he move? Okay, some of the other groups are moving their fingers around, sometimes they were releasing from up here and up here, so do you think your data might be a little more realistic?
 Yeah.
 Yeah, okay so, now one thing, what type of formation do you guys have? [Inaudible]
 Good. Put an adjective in front of it.
 Extremely strong.
 Strong. A strong positive. Do you think every correlation around here is gonna be the same?
 No.
 No.
 Okay, so yours is probably going to be one of the strongest ones. Remember that correlation coefficient?
 R, it went from positive one to negative one or zero?
 Oh yeah.
 What do you think yours would be close to?
 One.
 It'd be really close to-- Then we'll get to that shortly guys, later on. Okay?
 So you probably would have one that's a decimal 999 or really close.
 Okay, so you're trying to find your slope?
 Yeah.
 So what is your slope?
 Two.
 Two, okay, so over here we're gonna put-- And now, does everyone have the exact same?
 You do?
 Pretty much.
 Oh, most groups who are four people are slightly off depending on where you put the line. Okay, here's the slope. So you just told me your slope is two, now what am I asking you to do? What is your-- [Background Chatter]
 No, we're not done yet. What is your--
 It's 2.0.
 Read the question. [Background Chatter]
 Okay, what's the slope of the equation? The slope is-- What did you just tell me?
 Oh, two.
 Two.  Okay now, what's the real-world meaning of that? What does that mean when you say yes, those are two.
 Okay now, we can go back to that, I just want to talk to you about the solution. Just on your slope, you said it was two. That was perfect. But now, what's the real-world meaning?
 So the slope is the more rubber band...
 What are you looking at? [Background Chatter]
 So it's one and two...
 One. [Background Chatter]
 Why can't it?
 So you want to put five? Okay. Ten over. Okay, so now you're telling me your slope is, ten over one. [Background Chatter] Okay, well I'm asking you what's your slope. Now you're saying your slope is 10. That's what the slope is but I want the real-world meaning. So what were you saying?
 For every one rubber band that drops...
 How do you know? How do you know-- But where are you getting... I need a little more detail though. It's dropping what? So, 10 centimeters for every?
 One.
 One rubber band. Okay. Now, what's your y-intercept?
 Seven.
 Seven. Now is your y-intercept directions to get somewhere else or is it telling the exact location? What's the y-intercept? Because a slope, isn't that directions to get somewhere else? What's the y-intercept? I want the entire-- It's zero seven. So can you write zero seven down please? Write zero seven down. And now, tell me what the real-- When I ask you what the y-intercept is, yes, zero seven. Now what's the real-world meaning.
 ...subtract out of seven...
 So what's this saying? Translate that for me. You're saying there's no real-world meaning, what's that saying? [Background Chatter]
 So, before we put any rubber bands on, this already moves seven centimeters. What does that mean? Going into this lab, did I know if the real-world meaning was gonna make sense or not. There's been a few groups today their y-intercept has a real-world meaning
 zero zero. But did I know where your line was gonna go? No. But if it went straight through zero would that make sense? Zero rubber band? So--
 So what's the real-world meaning?
 Well, what do you think? This y-intercept that you had, does it have a real-world meaning? No. So yeah, it doesn't have a real-world meaning. What slope did it? Okay. Once again, did I know that coming in? Depended on your data. Good job. [Background Chatter]
 Guys, you're asking If you plug into this, four times three, that's 12.
 But yeah. Three, two and four. I think it says three. Okay? So what's your equation...  Y equals 3x plus 12? Okay so let's talk about that.
 No, no it's one, intercept the y... 
 It really doesn't play out with that algorithm.
 It makes no absolute sense whatsoever. [Background Chatter]
 Yeah but you find air.
 Oh that makes sense.
 But this...
 What are we talking about?
 We got one anyway, but really that's it.
 Wait one second, backtrack for one second. So, what did you say here?
 Five-thirds.
 What is a five-thirds?  5/3. Okay, so what's the real-world meaning?
 Every five inches there is three rubber band.
 Okay. So now does the ball go on a rubber band? So flip that around so you're saying two rubber bands, the figure is going--
 Yes.
 Okay, does that have real-world meaning? Does that have real-world meaning?
 Yeah.
 Yeah. Okay, Now you're saying what, your y-intercept is-- can I see your graph paper for a second?
 Yeah.
 Okay. So yeah, it looks like it's around-- Does everybody have the same?
 No.
 Do you think everyone's gonna get the exact same line?
 We didn't really have an intercept slope, we just looked at... 
 We just...
 Yeah, which sounds great because you're all gonna draw that line slightly different, so go with one then.
 What does that y-intercept-- Is that directions or is that a location? It's a location, isn't it? So can you write the exact location? Because you're only counting one. What's the order of pairs here? You have a pair of zero one, so write that down.
 Pair of zero ones. You have a pair of zero ones.
 Yeah.
 What's zero represent?
 Zero rubber bands.
 Zero rubber bands. So when zero rubber bands were attached, how far did that--
 One.
 One inch. Does that make sense to you? So when there's zero rubber bands attached, you figure out one inch? Alright, let's demonstrate that. Let's see. Can I see that for one sec please? Okay, let's go back to before we started. Zero rubber bands attached, what's happening. Okay, what's happening right now. Zero rubber bands-- Did he already move one inch?
 No.
 So, Does the y-intercept come in?
 No.
 No.
 You said... [Background Chatter]
 Because you just told me it was five inches of three. Yeah. What are we discussing now? The data, or the equation for the... Okay? Now so, does this y-intercept make sense?
 No.
 Zero rubber bands are removed. So does the y-intercept have real-world meaning?
 No.
 Does the slope have real-world meaning?
 Yeah.
 Did I know your y-intercept wasn't gonna have real-world meaning?
 Yes.
 No, because there's some people today that actually have real-world meaning. What would be a y-intercept if it made sense?
 Zero zero.
 Zero zero. Zero rubber bands equals--
 Zero inches.
 Zero inches.
 What were you saying your slope was? So let's discuss three. The slope is three, what's the real-world meaning?
 How many rubber bands would you need in your description?
 Grabbing one rubber band, does that make sense? Okay, now, so now what anout your y-intercept would be at 12. Now you gotta figure... Let's discuss this right here. [Background Chatter] Now, I think you're thinking ahead. But this line looks like it's crossing up here to-- Where is it crossing? It's crossing at-- We're going up three, look, three, six, seven. Yeah I was looking like around four. So let's discuss this. You have six? That could be perfect, but we know the exact way a line likes to go. Let's go with Monique, six. What's that saying? Let's go to a pair, to the y-intercept. Zero pair, zero six. So what does that mean? So write that down, zero pair, zero six for the y-intercept. And what's that actually mean?
 Zero rubber bands in front of the six equals how many inches.
 So, this was the figure. Zero rubber bands attached, does that make it already move six inches? Does that make any sense at all? So does the y-intercept have real-world meaning? Could it still have real-world meaning? You were thinking ahead I think, when you drew your line. Because what's the only y-intercept that makes sense here? Zero rubber bands--
 81 inches.
 But you didn't move. But does that mean you can decide I want to make real-world meaning and just draw my line down the zero? Because what am I looking for? The equation for the line of-- Is yours the equation for the line now? Your y-intercept makes sense, If you knew the equation for the y-intercept.
 You plug in 81 inches for X right?
 Did you end up with a negative? [Background Chatter] [Background Chatter]
 You're fine. You what? [Background Chatter]
 Minus what? Oh, minus one. I wanna discuss it. If you're y-intercept is... What's the order of pairs...? Zero, negative one, so what's the real-world meaning? [Background Chatter] [Background Chatter] What's that mean? What's the zero represent? [Background Chatter] Okay, so zero rubber bands, what's your y-interception? At zero rubber bands, how far does it go now?
 Negative one
 Did he already go one, or did he reach it? So does that make sense? Zero rubber bands and he's already traveled one? Does that make any sense? So does the y-intercept? Does that mean your y-intercept just didn't end up happening?
 Yeah.
 When you know how to use this it works, [Background Chatter] With zero rubber bands, how fast are you going? Zero? Zero. Okay, does that mean your data's all wrong? No, that's the way your numbers work. Could you slope this out instead three? What's that mean? Three, three what? Four is still, Five is... So three... Three what? Let's go and do number five. Distance, so what would your distance be? Inches. So it's like three inches is over one-- So that makes sense. So, does your slope have real-world meaning?
 Yeah. Okay.
