 Until I say switch. So you stay at your center when you are finished. When I say switch, you may go to the next center. Okay? All right, so. Here are different centers. You know where you go, you may go to your center, and you may begin. (children talking indistinctly) Let's go back again, let's make sure we're pushing. There you go. (children talking indistinctly)
 14, 14, 14. Where should we start them? Good job. Nice job. Where do you think we should start our cubes when we're gonna measure?
 Here.
 Yeah.
 Because we wanna line it up where it starts.
 Good.
 Nathan used more force to do it.
 Right, Nathan used a little bit more force than you, didn't he? So when you used more force, what did that do?
 It made it go farther.
 It made it go farther, good job. All right guys, if you are done, put your thumbs up. If you are still working, raise your hand in the air. Okay, I'm gonna give you about one more minute to finish up. (children talking indistinctly) All right, how did it go?
 (mumbles) Okay, very nice. (children talking indistinctly) Where should we start it? Now if we're measuring, where do we need to start the cube? Nice job. (clapping) All right, I want you to stop what you're doing. You need to pick up your clipboard and your pencil, and you need to switch. Leave the cubes and the pucks at the station. Clipboards, pencils, and switch. (children talking indistinctly)
 We have no puck over here.
 Here it is. Have an idea for you. Okay, hold on a second, let's go down the list. I want you to come back, put that away. I saw Teddy go like this and put his fingers here, and go up. Why did you do that, Teddy? Where it was, but when he marks the paper there, he needs to really leave it there and then push the other ones up. And I need someone else to come over here and measure. Now, we knew it was 10 here, what are we gonna count next? What comes after 10?
 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16.
 15, okay, go ahead and record that.
 How do we know when it's supposed to be a (mumbles)? (background noise drowns out conversation)
 Okay, so whose turn is this one?
 Mine. Where do you need to start lining it up?
 50.
 [Teacher] 15?
 50.
 [Teacher] 50? So if we did 10, what comes after 10? 11...
 12, 13, 14.
 [Teacher] 14. Right there. Nice job. All right, stop what you're doing. I want you to go ahead, pick up your clipboard and your pencils, and you may switch. (children talking indistinctly) (background chatter)
 Let me do it.
 Can I ask a question?
 Sure, what would you like to ask me? (background noise drowns out conversation) All right? Okay. That's a good question. All right, who's gonna go next in this group? Okay, why don't you hold on one second. Can you move over a little bit? Get behind it and push it. (children talking indistinctly)
 11, 12, 13, 14, 15...
 Yeah, I did.
 What do you notice about those two numbers?
 Oh, it's two 19's.
 I think Amber might get the 19.
 You think she might get 19?
 No, she didn't.
 (laughs) Do you wanna try pushing it again?
 Here, start behind. (background noise drowns out conversation) Nice job. All right guys, go ahead and switch one more time. Take your pencil and your clipboard. (children talking indistinctly)
 You can go first.
 Okay, guys. Let's get our pencil so that we know exactly where it is.
 Right here.
 Okay, so now go ahead and count. So what did you come up with?
 13.
 [Teacher] 13, good job. Let's turn the clipboard around so you can.
 Three backwards.
 35.
 Whoa!
 All right, now whose turn is it?
 DaMonte's turn.
 Go ahead, DaMonte. Now where do we need to start counting?
 Right here.
 Can you give him some tips? Where do you think he should start counting?
 Right here.
 Okay, and why?
 The line.
 That's where the tape begins, right? Or you could even go like this and start it at the tape and then you use your pencil.
 So where does the pencil stop?
 Right here.
 Okay, so then count to there. I'll hold it for you, you count.
 10.
 Ben, what do you think? Can you help him?
 Seven.
 So Ben thought that he got seven.
 Yeah, it's seven.
 Okay, so we're gonna stop where the thing begins, so we're gonna stop at the seven, okay? Here you go, good job. (clapping) Okay, I want you to stop what you're doing. I want you to quickly come to the carpet with your pencil and your clipboard. Come to your circle spot. I'm gonna count down from five, I want you to be on the carpet at zero. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. And zero. I love how you guys get to the carpet so nice and quietly. Thank you. Give yourself a pat on the back for doing a really good job. Now, I wanna know what you noticed about using the different surfaces. What did you notice about the tile, what did you notice about the wood, what did you notice about the cloth, and what did you notice about the carpet? Sophia.
 I noticed that the cloth and the carpet was harder.
 It was harder? And so what do you think happened?
 The puck slowed down.
 The puck slowed down, what made it slow down?
 The bumps on the towel.
 The bumps on the towel, and when we watched that video that talked about the bumps, do you remember what they called that? What is it that causes those bumps?
 [Teacher] Nathaniel?
 It pushes back.
 It does, it pushes it back. What's that big word that we've been talking about?
 Friction.
 Friction, so do you think there was more friction on the towel?
 Not when I did it.
 Okay, so Monalisa, share what you noticed.
 When I pushed mine, it went all the way down.
 It went all the way down, so which one had more friction when you were testing it? Which one slowed down or did not go as far?
 (mumbles) Which surface was slower, do you remember?
 The carpet.
 The carpet, so the carpet for you had the most friction? Okay, so does anyone else wanna talk about their surface? Kayley.
 The cloth, when I pushed the puck, it went kind of far, but not really far, because of all the bumps.
 Which surface had the least amount of friction? Daniel.
 Wood.
 The wood. Give me a thumbs up if the wood was also the one with the least amount of friction. Good job!
