 So, does percent always have to be 100?
 No.
 Because I see, none of the percents up here are 100.
 They're all lower than 100%.
 So you think a percent can either be 100 or less.
 Yes.
 Okay, okay. So that means you think this can be called an improper. Okay. Ian.
 Three-fourths and the decimal 0.75 are the same.
 What do you mean by the same? One's a decimal, one's a fraction.
 Well, I mean like they're equivalent.
 Ah. Equivalent. So, does that go back to what Alana said? Alana, which ones did you have there?
 One-half and .5.
 So you're saying the same kind of relationship is one and the same with  one-half and 5/10?
 Yeah.
 Okay. Alana, no?
 Well, I did one-fourth, three-fourths, 0.75 and 0.25 because they're all part of quarters.
 Ah, you did one-fourth, what was the other one?
 One... Wait, one-fourth,  three-fourths.
 All right.
 0.75 and 0.25, because they're all part of quarters. Ah.
 Okay, quarters. I can think of,  money. Quarters. Or...
 Yeah, 25 cents, 75 cents.
 Yeah, 25 cents is one quarter.
 75 cents is three quarters. Three-quarters, one-quarter.
 Excellent. Good, good. Ian?
 Everything can be made a percent or a fraction or a decimal.
 Oooh. So you found a way to connect every single one of them. So everything can be made into... Say it again?
 A percent, fraction or decimal.
 Interesting. So you're saying that I can take this percent and write it as a, just a percent? Or as a... What else?
 Fraction and decimal.
 So, okay, he's connecting all. He thinks all three of them can become equivalent. From the views before.  Excellent, Ian.
 Six-fourth, one-fourth and three-fourth,  they all have a denominator of four.
 Ah, yeah. What does that mean that they all have a denominator of four?
 Well, they're all like, sets of fourths.
 What does a denominator represent in a fraction?
 The, um...bottom number?
 When we write it as the bottom number, when we're literally writing it, what does it actually represent? What's that for?
 How many equal parts it's split into.
 Ah, the number of equal parts it's split into. So let me go back to Ian. Ian is saying that everything can be written as also, as a fraction, a decimal, and a percent. So can everything be in four parts? What if it's in five parts? Does that matter?
 I can do the five parts as a percent or I can do four parts as a percent?
 Yeah.
 What about what Alan said? Percent, is it up to a hundred and that's it?
 No, depends on the range that you set it.
 So can you give me an example of when something would be more than 100%?
 Well, like, when something you did in Earth Science we did to see if our grow-dino grew over 600%.
 Good connection. Okay. So what did that mean if it grew over 600%?
 It, like, grew bigger than, times...
 Over six hundred times its size?
 Yeah, 600 times its size. Okay. So is it possible, so is that an improper percent? No, but we sort of get stuck into thinking that percent is 100%,  meybe we can't go over 100%. What happened here? You tell me about that percent. (Inaudible)
 It's less than one percent. Is that possible? Can you think of a real-life example when you'd have less than one percent? (Classroom chatter) about growing something expanding over and over, to 600 times its size. Can you give a real-life example of when I would have 0%?
 When you fail a test.
 Oh. Well, I could fail a test with 64%. What does it mean if I fail a test with 0%? Other than I'm in big trouble at home. What does it mean? What would that mean if you failed it with 0%? What would that mean about what you did on the test?
 You didn't get anything right.
 Yeah, you got zero right,  nothing right. Didn't get a single question right. Can it be less than zero? Is this less than zero?
 Yeah.
 No.
 It's less than one.
 So where is zero here? (Classroom chatter)
 Tenths is that zeros?
 No.
 Where's zeros?
 Between.
 Where would they go? Would they go in the ones place, tens place...
 Ones.
 In the ones place. We have zero ones. So is this less than zero?
 Yes.
 No.
 No.
 No, because it's 0.1 (Classroom chatter)
 Interesting, okay. So, can I have less than zero percent?
 No. You can have a negative, but
 If it's negative percent...
 Can you have a negative percent?
 What do you think?
 Well, I was going to say something could be, like, one point, like, point one percent less than something, if you're comparing two things.
 Okay, your percent of increase or decrease, have you looked at that in Earth Science yet? Standard deviation? Okay. We'll talk about that somewhere else the percentage of increase-decrease.  I'm talking about a negative increase in or decrease in percent. And whether that's below one or zero. Okay, so can you give an example of where this could occur? Where I can have less than 1%?
 It can occur I think  with that fraction.
 Okay, but that's just a made up. Can you give me something in real life that I could have less than 1%? You can have an example of  more than 100%. So my question is, does percent go from 100 to one, or zero, or is there anything less in between? What do you think?
 Like, a gas tank in your backyard.
 Okay.
 Like when you call in to get it filled and it's really low. The meter's low, and under one.
 Okay, that's typically not going to be measured in percent, it's going to be measured in how many gallons for your tank, it's going to be a volume situation.
 Oh.
 Okay, but we'll talk about that. So let's keep that in mind. We're still trying to find an example when we have less than 1%. Think of one, Alice?
 Like, on the labels and stuff on the vitamins, less than 1% of your recommended day or something.
 I just so happen to have here, vitamins. You're right. And there are some examples when, if I take this, I'm not going to get my daily 1%, I'm going to get less than that. But there's some of these in here, ooh, like if I take one of these I get 100% of vitamin C. Now, I drank a glass of orange juice this morning, when I took my vitamin. What happened to the percent of vitamin C? Where's it at?
 It went over 100.
 Over 100. So, there's a real-life when I can get over 100% of something. Anybody get over 100% on a quiz or test ever? Over? And, how do you get that?
 Bonus.
 Ah, bonus questions. So we're good with coming up with more than 100%. But we're still trying to figure out if we can think of an example where it's less than one percent. So, we'll go back to that. Any other connections? Let's see if we can connect the ones we haven't done yet. Anything with the leftover ones?
 One-fifth and 20% are equal.
 Okay. Box right there. They're equivalent to each other, right? How did you know they were equivalent?
 Because one-fifth of 100 is 20.
 Okay, she did one-fifth of 100, because we think of, again we keep going back to a hundred for 100%, is 20 out of 100. Excellent. What else?
 One-tenth and 10%.
 Ah, what can you say about one-tenth and 10%?
 They're equivalent.
 Again, equivalent. Going to go back to Ian. Ian, they're finding the percent and the decimal, but there's no fraction there. Fraction with a percent, but there's no decimal. Is there a third for all of them? You said there's an equivalent fraction, decimal, percent for all of them.
 No.
 But there can be.
 The decimal would be (inaudible)
 So what would you like to add here, Ian? Let's go to the... which one?  You pick one. Find the equivalent relationship and see if we can find that third piece we're missing.
 Well, 150 and six-fourths is equal.
 Okay. Do we think they equal each other?
 No.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Convincing, but not yet, you haven't convinced everybody. (Classroom chatter) Do you think that equals...? Okay, four-fourths would equal 100%
 And one-fourth, each fourth is 25% and if it's two over, then
 I've got two-fourths left over.
 And that'd be 50.
 And they can also equal 0.5.
 So now we need the decimal piece. 1.5. What did you say, Alan?
 Uh, two-fourths can equal 0.5.
 So what do you think six-fourths, give me the decimal that I'll put here. We agree that these are equal.
 1.5.
 Oh, so there is a decimal that goes there.
 How'd you get 1.5?
 Oh, because one and a half.
 Got it? See where the half came from? You said, Ruby, you had told us that one-half and five-tenths were equal. So, if we have that one-half here, we do the same thing, we combine it here to get the 50%. Okay. So, any others? What's the missing piece, Ian?
 Uh, you mean like another decimal to put in or do you mean like, another...
 Well, pick two that are equivalent and give me the missing third piece.
 One in one-thousands.
 One thousandths.
 One thousandths and 0.1%.
 Ah. Are these equivalent?
 No.
 Yes.
 No.
 You're going to have to convince them, Ian. It's the day of Ian convincing, I don't know.
 They are.
 Why do you say they are?
 Because one percent over a hundred... (Classroom discussion)
 Well, because that's tenth, that's not thousandths.
 It's not one-tenth, it's one-tenth of a percent. So, here's another question then. Are those equivalent?
 No.
 No. So be careful. That's not one-tenth, that's one-tenth of a percent. So could one tenth of a percent be the same as one one-thousandths?
 Yes.
 Yeah, but when you divide it by 100.
 Ah, so we keep hearing, divide and multiply by a hundred, so when I convert from a percent to a decimal, or percent to a fraction, I'm using powers of what?
 Ten.
 Ten. So the question is: Is that the equivalent to that?
 Yeah.
 How do you want to do it, Ava?
 Um.
 Can you fill in the missing piece? Can you give me the equivalent decimal to try to convince me to go from here to here, with a missing decimal that I have? I have the percent and I have the fraction but we think we're going to get all three of them. Can you tell me what decimal that is?
 Um, zero and one-thousandth?
 How did you get that?
 Um, divide by 100.
 Ah. Dividing by 100. What do you notice happens when we divide by 100?
 It goes back.
 Okay, when we divide it...
 It moves two decimal places.
 And the decimal place moves two places over. So did that happen? So, are we convinced that these three are now equal?
 Yes.
 Can we see that now?
 But you divide 0.1% you divide it by a hundred to get... Oh yes, you're changing it back because you multiply a decimal by 100 so you have that. Okay.
 Yeah. Now that Ava gave us the decimal, is it easier to convince ourselves that all three are equivalent to each other?
 Yes.
 Because now you when you read that, you read it as what? One and one one-thousandths. So are we convinced that we can find an equivalent fraction, decimal, percent for every fraction, every decimal and every percent?
 Yes.
 So why do we have all three? Why not do everything in fractions, do everything in percents, or do everything in decimals? Why do we have, in real life, all three things going on?
 Alice?
 Because for some things it's easier to picture it in percent, in decimal.
 Okay, so picturing a visual to go with it, can you think of an example of one we use or, in real life?
 Well, like with money. It's like easier to think that it's going to be 25 cents or 0.25 than like, 25% of a dollar. Yeah, wouldn't that be interesting if they said, how much is that salad today? Well, it's something percent of a dollar.
 Okay, Ian?
 Well, with fractions, one-third is equal to 0.333 and keep going.
 Ah, so if we did with fractions or decimals, we might have some repeating...
