 [Teacher] I see lots of different levels of tennis. I see some balancing levels. Blake, why do you choose to balance this? Who wants to share? (Background Chatter)
 [Teacher] Keeping that ball controlled. Back to back. Catching placement, find a partner, and standing with equipment on the ground. I've got two groups ready, equipment's on the ground. You're looking for somebody you may have not worked with already. You should have found a partner. If not, you guys will start. Thank you for placing the equipment down on the ground. Lost and found? Lost and found always come to the start, very good. When I say go, you're going to turn to your partner, I want you to talk to them about what is a lifetime activity? What I have on the board over here, and I also have it on my screen. Lifetime activity, what does it mean to have a lifetime activity? What does the word lifetime mean? Go. (Students talking among themselves)
 [Student] Bryan: soccer, baseball... Maybe not.
 [Other Student] Soccer?
 [Student] Maybe one of those, yeah maybe it could be, yeah soccer.
 [Other Student] Volleyball?
 [Student] Yeah, volleyball (Background Chatter)
 [Teacher] And five, four, three, two, and one. My partner and I, Zachary, had some really good examples of what lifetime means, so I'm gonna use his. Zachary said that lifetime means you do it now, as a third grader, but we could do it later in life as an adult. Raise your hand if that's what you and your partner kinda said? It's something you should be able to do later in life? Very good. And then we gave each other an idea of what some activities could be that we could do now and later in life. Zachary said two cool ones, "tennis." Anybody else say tennis? Awesome, pat yourself on the back. And he also said "bowling," and the reason those two are really good examples for having now as a third grader, and later in life is that they're pretty good on your body. You can still do 'em, they're not gonna injure your body too much. It's gonna make you strong and healthy. We have an organ in our body that really needs to be worked out. We've talked about aerobic capacity. And tennis will make your heart beat faster. You have to find something that's gonna make the heart beat faster. So now turn to your partner, talk about what you're gonna choose to make your heart beat faster. Go. (Students discussing among themselves)
 [Teacher] And five, four, three, two, one. Pat yourself on your back for your lifetime activity, that you're gonna choose, nice job. When I say go, you are your partner are now gonna travel back to any open area and stand back in face-off position. So this is where my partner and I came, and we put our equipment down. Then we'll turn and look at the board. Ready? Go. Looking for an open spot with a partner. Thank you for carrying your equipment quickly and quietly. Now, we're transitioning now to talk about working with a partner and doing some tennis challenges. So far, we've worked by ourselves to be responsible learners Brian, are you looking for your partner? He's right here. So now we can work with a partner and be responsible learners. On the screen is one of the challenges we did with the balloons yesterday. Zachary and Ms. Rock will show you an example of what you could practice. We're gonna actually skip this level today, but you could choose it, if you said "Hey you know what, let's go back to this other level." So Zachary and Ms. Rock both have our rackets, we're gonna practice underhand striking keep up. Raise your hand if you remember that? Awesome. Alright, here it is. I tick, step, tock, and he's gonna strike back or he can catch it, and then I'm gonna keep striking. We're gonna keep our paddles low, go ahead. Alright, I'm gonna wait 'til it gets low so I can strike, he's gonna also wait 'til it gets low to strike. Keeping that paddle low. We're trying to keep it up as long as we can. Awesome. So that was the first level. Striking, keep up with the balloon. Now we're gonna move to bean bag challenges with a partner. Super duper cool. It looks like this. Only one person will need a bean bag. Since I'm closest to the wall, I'm the person to have the bean bag first. I'm going to be the underhand thrower. Zachary, go ahead and pick up your racket. Create a flat surface. I'm going to underhand throw, he's going to catch it on his racket. Take a step, tock. Good try. You might have to reach out and get under it. Now he's gonna leave it on his racket, and he's gonna underhand throw it back from his racket to my hands. Go ahead. Take a step, tock. I catch, alright? He needs to have three tries with the racket, then it's my turn to have three tries with the racket. Thumbs up if you understand. Down if you got a question. Alright. Person closest to the wall, you will pick up your partners ball and switch out one bean bag. Bring it back, and place it in your racket. Go. Quickly, quickly, and five, four, three, two, one. You should have one bean bag back on your tennis racket. Raise your hand if you have a question. So, partner with the beanbag go ahead and pick it up. You're the tosser first, with your hands. You only need the beanbag. You only have the beanbag. Grab your place on your side. Thank you, Christopher, for being safe. We're gonna move through these challenges fairly quickly. We're gonna see how far we get. We're gonna be responsible, if the beanbag is not working so well, you can go back to a--?
 [Students] Balloon.
 [Teacher] Balloon. Alright, let's practice. Go. One catching on their racket, one catching on their hand. I hear good communication with a partner. You have to help each other. (Background Chatter)
 [Teacher] One person is underhand throwing, one person is catching. Awesome, if you haven't switched jobs, go ahead and switch jobs at this time. If you haven't switched jobs. (Rackets clanging)
 [Teacher] See how many good catches you can get. Give yourself a point for each catch. Hands or racket. Are you using the opposite foot to step back with? Both partners pick up rackets. Both partners pick up rackets. Look at the board now, you're gonna see the toss from racket to racket challenge. Count how many you can get. Go. (Background Chatter) There you go, Zach. Excellent
 [Zach] One.
 [Teacher] And freeze. (Rackets clanging to floor) [Teacher] Alright, from here, I'm going to now make you and your partner be responsible learners. We have learned to use a bean bag with a partner. We're gonna now learn how to use both a foam ball, and a large tennis trainer. Both of these offer different challenges. The first one is a foam ball. As you can see on the screen, they now have a foam ball. Zachary picks up his racket. We are doing an underhand strike back and forth. But like we did with the tennis ball, we can also catch it on our tennis racket at any time we need to. So, Zachary do you think if I tossed this to you, you could try catching it? Alright, let's see. Nice! He had to figure out how to keep that balance on here. He's gonna do the same thing back to me. This is just working on looking for that ball, getting our feet to it, and keeping a flat surface. We can do the catching with the ball, now we're ready for the tap offs. Remember what we did with the balloon? We're gonna try to keep the foam ball up. This is what it looks like. Tap, tap, good try. It went away a little bit, stop it, we come back. I tick, step, tock. Good. We're keeping a flat surface coming back, slanted out. The lower the racket, the better control we will have. I want the racket to stay at a slant to partner. Can you say that?
 [Students and Teacher] Slant to partner.
 [Teacher] So that's the foam ball challenge. Some of you may just stay with the foam ball. But, if you're like: "I wanna challenge myself and my partner," I say "Zachary, we can now use the tennis trainer". And, it's going to bounce,strike, bounce,strike. The bouncing is gonna bounce here, before I hit it, then it will bounce in the middle, then my partner will strike. Okay? Ready Zachary? So, it's a bounce strike, bounce strike. Excellent. And I would come back and start it over again if I need to. Bounce strike, bounce strike, bounce strike, bounce strike. Catch when needed. Were we controlled? Yeah! When it got out of control, we caught it. So from here on out, you now have balloon to challenge yourself and a partner with, bean bag, What came next?
 [Students] Foam Ball
 [Teacher] And then?
 [Students] Tennis trainer.
 [Teacher] Excellent. See how far you get with the partner you're working with. This uses communication and cooperation. Say that.
 [Student] Communication and cooperation.
 [Teacher] Excellent. This is how it would look: Zachary, what piece of equipment would you like for us to use? Or you think you're ready?
 [Zachary] The...
 [Teacher] The foam ball? Or the balloon? What did you say?
 [Zachary] The end one.
 [Teacher] The end. He said he wanted to use the tennis trainer. "W" for Wilson, it's the brand. I said, "Oh you know what Zachary, "I don't feel like I'm ready for this one. "Can we go back to a foam ball first?" And he said "yes". I'm all "phew, thank you". We just had communication and cooperation. I know that I can practice with this one for a little longer I'll probably be ready for the challenge. Alright, ready, go. (Background Chatter)
 [Teacher] Are you able to keep your paddles low? Keeping that balloon or that piece of equipment nice and controlled. Are you using an underhand strike? (Background Chatter) Alright, ready Zachary? Bounce strike, bounce strike-- let it bounce one time. Bounce strike, bounce strike, good. Bounce strike, bounce strike, bounce strike, bounce strike. Now I'm going to give you a challenge, so I can go around the room and see if anyone needs help. You'll just work on tap ups, you can use any equipment that you need, okay? Tap ups, or tap downs. If you and your partner need a little help, you can always raise your hand, and I can come over. Try to review those cues with you. Underhand strike. (Background Chatter) Okay bounce strike, bounce strike, bounce strike. Okay, say that, bounce strike. Okay, and if it's not working, then you and your partner need to say... "We need to go back to the--" Be responsible, try it again though. Bounce strike, bounce strike Ooh this is where, Aiyah, did she step with her opposite foot? Did you step when you strike? No, so it's key to step when you strike. You gotta step. Try it again. Keeping those paddles low. If you and your partner have to move off of your self space a lot, that's a reflection, you should say "Ooh, we A, need help or B, let's go to a different level." Responsible word I hear. Which piece of equipment are you going to have the most success with? And freeze. (Rackets clatter to floor)
 [Teacher] Equipment should be  back on our rackets. Now, I see students at all different levels. So that shares with me that we have some very responsible learners in the class, which is excellent. But now, we're gonna see if you can switch it up a bit, and give yourself a challenge. You should be able to work with anybody. So what I'm gonna have you do is, let's see here, Ellie, Ellie is gonna step over here, come jogging down, all the way down to where Zachary is. Yay Ellie! Ellie is gonna slide down one, and that's gonna make everyone in this row slide down to a new partner. Where you going? Very good, Zachary. And then you go one down, yep, there you go. Now, wave to your new partner. Excellent. Same thing here, Harrison, come on down. (Cheering)
[Teacher] And slide on down. Wave to your new partner. Now you all of a sudden have to have more communication, because you don't know where this partner is at. Ready? Go. Talk, which one are you gonna do? (Background Chatter)
