 [Instructor] Present your position to the other side. Make sure that you include the SFI that backs up your position. Okay? After that three minutes, we'll swap sides. All right. So, three minutes, pros go right ahead. [Background Chatter]
 We're talking about how minorities have made a lot of progress since Reconstruction, and political things. Originally, there was  no black senators or congressman, but after  Reconstruction, around 1865, there was two black senators and fourteen congressmen, and now there's four black senators and I'm sure more black congressmen. 
 It's like quadruple the representatives. 
 And other minorities are representative-- represented in the House and Senate, so they've made a lot of  progress becoming a representative government.  [Background Chatter]
 They didn't have the knowledge of earlier.  So that's one way Reconstruction positively affected  education in the South... in America... [Background Chatter] Also these statistics show that even though...  even though certain states are slightly low on the circulation per capita statistics Virginia is number fifteen, which is relatively high for   a Southern state.  Except Florida is number thirty-four. And not all Northern states were held higher than--   education held higher than Southern states.  Like Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Delaware,  which are all Northern states,   are in relatively low positions on the scale.  [Background Chatter]
 And former slaves were able to kind of give back  more to the culture, and they influenced technology, and science, and advances in those. And kind of started influencing culture in the South and  kind of in all the United States.  [Background Chatter] So... and it really basically spread freedom through the South and finally gave the former  former slaves a voice and a place in the country.  And finally brought them together.  [Background Chatter] Y'all have anything else? 
 [Boy]: I found...
 [Girl]: The ones... they could like progress forward and they could [inaudible]...   because they have so many African-American positions and authors for that... for that.  I think, overall, it finally gave blacks a place and gave the South a place in the country again,  where they had been separated for so long.  Kind of started bringing everybody together again. 
 Because after the Civil War, the South still thought that 'We don't have to cooperate with the North...'  [Timer Beeps]
 All right, guys. That was pro. All right. Three minutes, let's here the anti. Three minutes and then we'll after... Listen real quick, guys. After this three minutes, we'll give it another minute, okay, and one more minute after that for a rebuttal, okay. For the final statement of the pros, okay? Go ahead, antis.
 1865 [inaudible] time of Reconstruction and during... nothing really got done.  If you look at the statistics, the infant mortality in Mississippi is number one and if you go on to the  lifestyle statistics, Mississippi is the very... has the least number of museums, concert halls, and observatories in city centers, showing the link between Reconstruction and just how it affected the South and how nothing got done  after the Civil War. 
 [Instructor]: Let me, I'm sorry to interrupt,  let me ask you this... What caused... I mean, there had to have been something I mean... during Reconstruction, everything was progressing. Something happened to cause that overwhelming   shift in numbers that you just pointed out   That, you know, the Southern states - the old  Confederate states - dominated the bottom of that poll.  Why do you think that is? Why would that happen?
 Because the North is trying to punish the South. after the Civil War.
 They're more focused on helping themselves  and not helping the South
 Because they're more focused on slavery than  actually trying the help the South because they were trying to punish them. So they didn't... They were trying the free the slaves they weren't trying to help the South because they didn't want them to become stronger, also.
 [Instructor]: Was there a particular event that really  solidified this, that really made that come to fruition? [Background Chatter] What is it the time frame of your question?
 1865 to 1877
 Okay, so...
 During Reconstruction.
 Right. So what happened at the end of Reconstruction?  Why 1877?   [Background Chatter] What happened in 1877? [Background Chatter]
 They took the military out of the South. 
 Exactly [Background Chatter] So, if the military was pulled out, what do you  think caused this result?  [Background Chatter]
 ...economic constraints imposed by Northern owners  and eventual overseas competition hampered development and Birmingham never developed into the world-class steel-making center that it was supposed to be. So yeah, it did sort of improve, but it just  never reached its potential because, and it even says hampered by Northern constraints. So the North basically said you can't produce more steel because we say so. So you can't... so Birmingham just couldn't really get any better at that point.  [Background Chatter]
 So the South has more industry now, like everything in the South is [timer beeps] in the lower twenty-eight percent.
 Okay, guys, listen. We're going to give you one more minute. You have a one minute period, the pros, if you want to add a little rebuttal to what you just heard, okay. After this minute we're going to take two minutes to compile our final position, okay, like our final little thesis, all right, that we're going to present then to the class. Okay. So one minute for a rebuttal from the pros. Go ahead. [Background Chatter]
 Because, since the military left, everybody revolted, so...
 They had no motivation.
 Everything that had been implemented for those years went out the window and... [laughter]
 But I think it's still, a positive way, was that it at  least it still left kind of some ideas of how to keep order  and the South still kind of had gotten a taste from the  military on how the Americans wanted things run and how  they needed to do to function as America and... so I think that mostly the military Reconstruction  like that was good, because it kind of came in and  helped them that way.  [Background Chatter]
 [Instructor]: What is the number of African-American senators and representatives? What does it show? What is the difference between  Reconstructive-Era... [timer beeps]... huge difference.
 All right, guys, listen up. You get two minutes. I need each side to compile your final argument, okay, your final statement. This is what you're going to present to the rest of the class. Remember you need SFI to back up your position, okay. That SFI can be census data. More importantly, it can be book data. Okay. Just normal, normal information from your text. So two minutes, go ahead and write it out if you want. Go. [Background Chatter] Each side comes up with their final points. [Background Chatter]
 We could go into more detail on the three-fifths compromise and we could mention the Ku Klux Klan intimidated... even though they got the vote, they were still controlled by the white people.
 Yeah, the social system still was there.  OK, I'll write that down. [Background Chatter]
 Could this be applied too?
 [Instructor]: Absolutely Remember, you have to explain to the class in  a way that they can understand it, okay?  They don't have that particular census data in front of them. So make sure that you're clear  when you present that as SFI in front of the class. [Background Chatter]
 Tell them how many libraries and [Background Chatter]
 Virginia is the only one that's in the top fifty percent.
 Completed out of fifty, and so... [Background Chatter] All the Southern states are in the bottom... [Background Chatter] And then, this is trying to say, what? Twenty-five right here?  Oh, so the bottom twenty-five, half... [Background Chatter] Existing at the time, which was... [Background Chatter] Should we tell them that these states aren't... [Background Chatter] or should we just not tell them? [Background Chatter]
 No, I would just... [Background Chatter] [Background Chatter]
 Most African-Americans that were unskilled at the time,  worked through this program to become more independent workers  and to learn to read and write, and so... I'll go back to my statistics here, Virginia and Florida [timer beeps] All right, guys, we're going to go in this order. Listen up. We're going to go in this order. We're going to go economic, then social, political, then educational. Okay. The pros are going to give their positions first to the class. All right? Now, the chart that you have in front of you, what I want you guys to do is while the rest of the groups are presenting their findings, their positions, I want you to take down three different pieces of information that you hear, specific pieces of information that you guys hear from the presenter. All right. Because you're going to use this when you formulate your own response at the end of class to how you feel about, you know, the efficacy of Reconstruction, based on what you've heard. Okay. You're going to make your decision, so you need to make sure that you have information down to support that, okay, to support your idea. And make sure you're getting that from their presentations. All right? So we're going to go with economic first. Economic pro, you have two minutes. Camille, you it?
 [Camille] Yeah.
 All right. Everybody listen to Camille.
 Okay. So we came up with a thesis and it was, "Reconstruction positively affected America economically by bringing a broader selection of products to the South and North. And the North was trying to find ways to help the South with the 13th and Alabama, and Mississippi, and everyone, they started mining for coal, and iron, and everything, and so that helped their economies because they were able to make more money with that instead of just cotton. And the North put a few restrictions on that, but that still helped their economy for more products. And the North manufactured more, like, grain. And we talked about other things that weren't really economic. That was about it, that we could come up with.
 Okay. Thank you. All right. Anti? Who is our speaker today? Okay, Grant, go ahead.
 [Grant] All right. So you mentioned the steel, and iron, and coal industries, and yes, those did help. But at the same time, the North industries, the North's economy was growing, and it was growing faster than the South. And there was the whole economic deals with inflation, where... So the South basically was making more, like a higher number of dollars, but it essentially was the same work as before the war.
