 5.03. [Background Chatter]
 5.03. All right let's talk for a minute before you continue with your little test. First of all, let's talk about motion. What do you know about motion?
 Motion is the way that you get from one place to another. It's changing position.
 Changing position, so just now, Bailey was running, was he changing position?
 Yes.
 Yes, all right so how do we know that he was in motion? Like, when he is running toward me how do I know he's in motion? [Background Chatter]
 That stays there and you can see him coming up.
 Nobody else was moving around.
 So that's our frame of reference. He came over there so we know he's coming toward us. All right so you guys did a trial. How many times did you run, Bailey?
 Three.
 All right so what are we gonna do now?
 We're gonna have to add them all up and divide them by three.
 Why are we dividing by three?
 Because we did it three times.
 Okay, you did it three times. You're finding your average. What's another word for average?
 Mean.
 Mean, good. All right so let's find his mean or his average. And then we'll record that and double check to make sure the whole group has the same amount or the same number. Okay, what did you get?
 5.21.
 5.21, is that what everybody has? Nathan maybe you redo yours and just check since three people have that. Let's name some things that are in motion. What do you know that's in motion?
 The earth.
 The earth is in motion, yup. But I don't feel the earth move so how do I know it's in motion?
 'Cause sun is the frame of reference.
 Okay, so if I was thinking of the sun which is what they do, and the earth we know we could see the earth is moving and the sun would be your frame of reference. What else do you know that moves?
 Animals.
 Animals.
 Insects.
 Cars.
 Insects, cars.
 Boats.
 People.
 People, books.
 Boats.
 Boats [laughing]. All right so how are we gonna find our speed because now we know how many seconds it took him but what's something else that I need to know besides how long it took him?
 The distance. [Background Chatter] The distance traveled which is a hundred feet.
 So what difference did we do?
 Hundred feet.
 A hundred feet. Okay, so what's the first thing you have to do is measure out your hundred feet?
 Yes.
 You did that and chalk-marked it? Good, all right so let's--
 We're talking about the average time taken.
 All right, so let's do that now.
 19.
 So let's talk about what that means, 19.19.
 Feet per second.
 What's that mean? Feet per second.
 19 feet per second.
 So if I say "feet per second" can you explain that to me? What does that mean "19 feet per second"?
 Every second I would go 19.19 feet.
 Good okay, so if I'm driving in my car and my car's going 70 miles per hour and I'm on the interstate do I say my car's going 75?
 No.
 No you'd say miles per hour, bleh, 70 miles per hour.
 Can you tell me, Nathan, why? What does that mean "70 miles per hour"?
 70 miles per hour means you're going 70 miles per each hour.
 For every hour, so that's good to know for vacations, right? Especially when you have little kids who are saying, "Are we there yet?" [laughs] You gotta figure out how long it's gonna take you.
 Are we there yet?
 Right, okay. All right you're going to go into your next part and I'll be right back to check on you. Who's the next person?
 Jordan
 It's gonna be Jordan. All right, Miss Jordan.
 Hold the longest tape and put it down right here so it will stay up.
 He thinks he needs one more piece of tape.
 Ready? Ready. Set, go. [balloon deflates] 1.76.
 1.89.
 Okay, so why don't you write them both. Do you have two spots?
 Only have one.
 You have two spots; write one there and one there. That's what you do there, just like that.
 What did you get?
 1.89.
 1.89.
 All right let's come talk about what you're doing. So let's get the three kinds of balloons that you're testing. Just gonna bring over here. Dan, why don't you get the, um, come slide that over here so we can get that tape off and get ready for the next one. We might try that one here. So we have...
 A big round one.
 A big round one, a green one, okay.
 A long one.
 Okay.
 And a birthday one.
 Did you all predict the same one would be the fastest or do you have different predictions?
 Different.
 Different predictions, what do you think?
 The Happy Birthday one.
 You think the Happy Birthday one.
 Long.
 Long.
 Long.
 Long.
 Can you tell me why you think Happy Birthday and then you'll tell me why you think long.
 At first my prediction was the long one because it was not as much wind blowing against it. But now there's wind blowing. It blew it to the sides and putting more force against it which slowed it down and made the long go faster.
 It'd be like this wind.
 Yes.
 You had this big. That is a pretty good prediction. [laughs] Why do you guys think it's gonna be the long one?
 I think it's the long one because it's more smaller and the air can come off faster and it's more stretchier.
 Stretchier.
 Tight, it's more tight.
 All right, all right we had some [Background Chatter]
 ...wasn't going all the way so we changed it to 20.
 It would stop about maybe three feet away from the end.
 It would stop, so what did you decide to do?
 We changed it to 20.
 You moved it to 20. Okay so... What else could you have done besides move it to 20?
 Blow up the balloon more.
 Maybe blow up the balloon more. Maybe the little one wouldn't have worked though, huh? It's not that much in there.
 We tried the big red one putting more air but it still stopped.
 The little one--
 I think the wind kind of changed how fast it would go and how far.
 All right, so... All right... So let's come back this way.
 Watch out behind you, Megan.
 Dan you can go over to... There's motion in the wind, huh?
 176 and 108.
 All right, so here we go. What are you gonna do first? Let's do the round balloon first. That was nobody's prediction, right?
 Nope.
 So let's do that one first. What are we gonna do?
 20...
 Add both up. And then what are you gonna do?
 Divide by two.
 Why are we dividing by two?
 To get the average.
 To get the average. Why did you do it twice? Why didn't you just--
 And there's two, the two trials.
 Why you did two trials? Why wouldn't you just do one? Why do you think that would've been better to do two?
 Divided by [Background Chatter]
 Then we wouldn't have to divide it, we wouldn't have to find the average at all. But I guess we'd get a better result. What'd you get there?
 2.35.
 3.73.
 That's what I got, 2.35.
 You add these two together and you divide them. Remember this is the average. Can you have four?
 I divided by two but I got 3.73.
 Let's try again. On the calculator I always do things twice to double check.
 2.35.
 2.35. Everybody's good? Okay so let's go down to the bottom of our sheet and we are going to figure out our average speed. So what's our formula for that? How do we figure out average speed?
 You do 20 because of the...
 Okay, so that's when we took 20 because, you see, we had 30 on our sheet because originally we were doing 30. So let's cross out you changed it to 20. And I think it was Dan that said, if we were to probably, no Hannah said we could probably could put more air in that balloon. But changing the feet, that'll work. Now how fast did the first balloon go?
 19.35 by 20.
 Look at your formula again.
 8.52.
 Your distance is 20 so you're gonna do your distance divided by your average time. Good?
 8.51.
 Okay and I'll come back to check on you you. All right, let's see how these guys are doing. This one's a runner. The line's over here right, Jordan?
 16.
 16.
 We're at the end of Nathan's so let's go ahead and figure out Nathan together. I'll come sit in your spot.
 They're in here.
 So to figure out Nathan, let's talk about it together while we're doing it. We need some more calculators over here.
 Wait, what's this?
 641.
 Everybody please do catch up. Got your pencils?
 Wait, wait.
 641, 575
 Tell me again what we're doing?
 ...average time.
 6.08.
 Does everybody have six? Read it back correctly.
 Six point O eight.
 Is that how you read it correctly in math?
 Six decimal.
 Do we say decimal?
 Six--
 Six point zero eight.
 Do we say point?
 Six and--
 And--
 Eight hundredths.
 Six and eight hundredths. Ohhhh.
 Gotta get it.
 So let's look just at our average time for just a second. Stop for a minute and let's look at the top at our average time. How do we know who is going the fastest when we're look at just the top part, just the time?
 Average time.
 The lowest.
 The lowest number, right, 'cause he's getting in the fastest time. So now when we go to the bottom and we're figuring out the speed, how do we do speed? Whoever's the lowest number?
 The highest number.
 The highest number it's going to be. Let's go ahead and do Nathan and then we'll compare then we'll let Demi do hers.
 16 point...
 16 point...
 16.44, right?
 Yep.
 So let's look so far at the bottom. Bailey, Jordan and Nathan. Who is the fastest?
 So far Bailey.
 So far Bailey, okay, so how can we, instead of looking at this, this looks like a whole bunch of numbers to me. What can I do visually just to make it a little bit clearer?
 Make a bar graph.
 Okay, we can make a bar graph with this. Anything else we can do?
 Line graph.
 Maybe get each person to make a line graph.
 Take your own three times and make a line graph with your own three times.
 Because that would be you, right, over time? That would be a great idea. So we can do the straight line graphs. That's a good idea with the line graph, Bailey. So when we make a line graph we'll do that at the end using this information and then we'll do a bar graph using this information. Does that sound good? All right, Demi's turn's up. Let's go.
 Let's see how we are doing here. Okay, we're at the very end. So which one ended up being the fastest?
 The long one.
 The long one. But I think that Devon had a very good prediction. I think his reasoning was good. See that wind blowing? In a race, when you're in a race, and you're running, or when you're in a foot ball team, what side do you want to be on if you have the ball and you're trying to get that ball to the other side? You want the wind to be with you, right? Because if you're against the wind, the wind is pushing on you, so I think Devon had an excellent... Good job, Devon, next time. All right, we're at the bottom. Why do you think that balloon was the fastest?
 I put, "The shape of it, the wind went right past it."
 All right, remember there was unbalanced force. So the force inside the balloon, where was the force?
 The wind, the air.
 The air that Devon blew inside that balloon, the air inside pushed the balloon and that's what made it travel and it was an unbalanced force so when you let go--
 It probably was the fastest because even though the wind was blowing it's on a round part to where it would spin and the wind would just roll off of the balloon and it would just make the balloon roll but it would still go as fast as it usually goes.
 That's a pretty good idea too. It's kind of like when you're driving a car if you're on vacation sometimes your parents, you may see them driving behind a 18 wheeler. Why do you think they would do that?
 Because the wind blocks the--
 Because the wind is blocking.
 18 wheel blocks it. The 18 wheeler's blocking the wind so you can get more miles per hour, I mean you can get better gas mileage doing that. If you ever see your parents doing that...
 Some people don't like to do that though because of rocks.
 Rocks, yeah it could be dangerous
 Yeah it could be dangerous becuase of rocks. Good job.
