 [Instructor] That's what we're going to do today, is you all are going to learn how to draw blood. You're going to learn how to actually stick the fake arms that we have or the phlebotomy learning aids is actually what they're called. And each one of you have gotten to a certain point in either phlebotomy or medical assisting where you're ready to start drawing blood. And I know that Wanda has gotten a little further but it never hurts to refresh on the procedures because, guys, when you get out there in the clinical area, a lot of people don't follow a lot of the steps that you need to do as far as blood draws. Guys that are medical assisting, you are not going to have to do as many venipunctures and the phlebotomy students but you may be responsible for drawing blood in a doctor's office. When you're there in the doctor's office it's just you and the person. So you quickly develop really good phlebotomy skills because if you don't get it then you have to send them to outpatient hospital to be able to get that blood drawn. The first things I want to talk about is your vein choice. And I printed off your veins. And the median cubital is your vein of choice and the median cubital runs right here in the middle.
 [Female] You can see this one better.
 Yeah, you see that one better. Your median cubital runs right in the middle and then your basilic is the one you want to stay away from. That's the one that runs little finger side. And then your cephalic is on the thumb side. So this little finger side toward the inside of the elbow is the one you really want to stay away from. And the reason that this is your last choice vein is there's quite a few nerves that are right underneath it. So if you go too deep or you move the needle around too much you can actually cause nerve damage. And I will leave this on the table as y'all are practicing with your phlebotomy arms so that you can look at your vein choice. Nerve damage is a very real possibility and some nerve damage is permanent so be very careful when you're choosing your vein. You can only advance or withdraw the needle only. You cannot go sideways. I know those of you who's already been in the clinical site, you've seen them go sideways, you've seen them come out and go back in. And guys, that could be a liability for you, and you're the only one that can protect your patient and you. I've got the materials set up. Whenever we repeat this, you all will set your materials up so take notice of what we've got here because you'll need this every time you practice on the phlebotomy arms. When you go to clean your arm, you're going to clean in a circular motion. So I'm going to go ahead and get started. First thing you're going to do, I don't need your gloves, just the two hands. First thing you're going to do is put on your gloves. I just washed my hands but I'm going to put on my gloves. And why do I want to do that? Jim.
 [Jim] So I don't get infected.
 Yeah, I don't want to come into contact with someone's blood. Now, who could protect me from coming into contact with someone's blood?
 Yourself.
 I'm the only one that can do that. And I can tell you, from having my blood drawn, people have drawn my blood without gloves on though they didn't know me from Adam. And one person in particular got quite a bit of my blood on them. So I am the only one that can protect me. If I see you practicing without your gloves on, it is an automatic grade ding for that practice day. If I see you drawing in the clinical area without gloves on, then we're going to have a big talk, okay? Because you've got to protect you.
 [Cathy] I have a question. With some people that you draw blood on, do you have to wear a mask? Like an eyeshield-type thing.
 If they are on precautions then yes, you would. And you've seen, at the hospital, on the doors where they have contact and respiratory isolation. If you were to go into one of those rooms, yes you would. In the ER, when you draw blood, you usually have on that splash mask. Now usually, with a venipuncture, you're not going to have that much pressure. It's not going to shoot the blood back out at you like an arterial would, but still, it's better to err on the side of safety. But also, if there's nothing wrong with me except I need a CBC to have a surgery and you come at me with a mask and a shield, I'm going to think, "Oh my gosh. Why is she doing that?" You know? So make sure that it's appropriate. If you're in a trauma area then yes, definitely. If you're in an outpatient clinic, unless that patient tells you, "My veins squirt blood really bad." A patient will tell you. One time I was doing a finger stick and it squirted and I had on my glasses but I turned my head. It hit me in the hair. So sometimes the venous flow will do that. Good question, Cathy. All right, so got my gloves on, first I'm going to do is I'm going to put the tourniquet on. And guys, the tourniquet can be kind of tricky the first time or two you do it. And you're going to put it underneath the arm. You need to make sure it's tight so your vein will pop up but not so tight you're going to cut off the blood flow and not so tight you're going to cause petechiae, which is little red patches on the arm. I'm going to cross my hands over. What I do is I put my left hand in position, I take my right hand, get ahold of the tail of this, pull it, and then I stick it underneath with my little finger. You always want your tails up toward the top so they're not in your area where you're going to clean and draw. When I'm going to clean... well, let me show you how to feel first. Well, it's not going to cooperate today.
 You can use my arm. That way they can see better.
 Can you move the Sharps container?
 I'm going to stick it underneath there. And now it should stay on there. Now to locate a vein, I'm going to take my index finger and I'm going to feel back and forth. And guys, you all can do this on each other. Jim's excellent to feel veins on and he's a real good volunteer. Bounce back and forth. It feels like a gummy worm or something soft underneath there. If it feels really hard, like I have one that I'll let you all feel that is very sclerotic or hard, you're not going to get blood out of it. It's got to be... it's got to bounce. So when you go across and you find it, then you're going to find which way it travels. So you're going to go up it and down it so you know which way to put your needle in. Some veins will go off to the side and some remain very straight. So I found my vein. Now the tourniquet can only stay on for one minute. Has my tourniquet been on about a minute? Probably so, so I need to take the tourniquet off, give this patient's arm a rest, and then I can talk to them about the weather, I can go ahead and line up my tubes at that time, and then I'm ready to draw blood now. So I come in here, I put my tourniquet on, and guys, when you put this tourniquet on you got to be ready to go because you only have one minute. And I'm going to clean. I'm going to clean in a circular motion and then, if you're having trouble with the alcohol, you're not able to fan it, you can't blow on it, and you can take one very clean 2 by 2, go straight down, dry it off, and then... many of you already did that. This part of the needle, this part with the rubber on it has the needle on it. You screw that in, take the end off, this is a safety needle. You anchor and then you stick in the bevel of the needle, that is the pointy part, the bevel goes up and then the pointy part goes into the skin. I pull my thumb away as I'm going in. I take one of these Vacutainer tubes, thank you, Jim, and I push it in. And guys, when I push in with my thumb I'm pulling back with my fingers. And you're not able to see but there is... and I don't do this in the clinical side, but there is blood coming in there. You let it fill until it stops. Now it's stopped flowing. I'm going to wrap my fingers around it and push because the more still you keep the needle, the less it's going to hurt the patient. Pop my tourniquet and I'm going to take a different 2 by 2 than what I cleaned with. Fold it, lay it on the arm, and guys, I'm just going to kind of hover there until I bring the needle out and push down. If I push down while the needle is in the arm, it hurts really bad. And I'm going to hold here and I'm going to hold until it quits bleeding. And you can peek. Now if the blood... oh, sticky needle engaged. It's hard to talk and do stuff at the same time, isn't it? Sharps. And you toss that in the sharps. Now, if this patient is on blood thinners, I've got to hold longer. A lot of clinics will just put a 2 by 2 or a cotton ball on there, put a CoBand on them and send them on their way. If they bleed out outside of the lab, you're liable. And again, you're the only one that can protect you. So I make sure that they've stopped bleeding. And now how hard is that going to be when there is a lobby full? You guys have been observing.
 Can we ask them to hold it?
 Well, you can. But what if they don't hold it tight enough? What if there's a whole lobby full? Jim, what have you seen them do in the past?
 [inaudible] and check.
 Yeah. You need to check it. If there's a whole lobby full sitting out there then you'll get to them when you get to them, because you've got to protect your phlebotomy certificate. You're the only that can do that. A lot of places, they will put a 2 by 2 or a cotton ball on there, tell the patient to hold their arm up. That breaks platelets, that's going to make a huge bruise, and it doesn't really help with the clotting that much, just kind of bruises. So we're going to look here. Okay, this patient has quit bleeding, so I am good to go here. Now, another lesson I will teach you about writing on the vials, the blood draw vials and what information needs to be on there. So before you all draw, let me ask you a few questions. What's your first choice vein?
 Median.
 Median. Okay. And why do we avoid the basilic? Nicole.
 [Nicole] Nerves and tendons.
 Nerves. Okay. What can happen if I... powder on the shirt. What can happen if I dig around in there and I do injure somebody? What can they do?
 They can bleed or they can have their nerve damage.
 Right. And they can come and say, "This phlebotomist drew here." And then, guys, if you're ever in a setting where you have to go to court, they're going to call somebody that's a phlebotomist like you are and they're going to ask them, "What's your first choice vein?" And they're going to say, "The median, " and they're going to say, "What's your next choice? What's your last choice?" So you're going to have somebody there that knows. You really don't want to draw from that one unless it is your last choice. Okay, what can happen if the patient's on blood thinners? Cassie, what's the most important thing to remember about the patient that's on blood thinners?
 [Cassie] To keep pressure.
 To keep pressure. Okay. How do you clean your site, Martika?
 [Martika] In a circular outward motion.
 Circular, you don't ever go back over. And how long do you leave the tourniquet on, Faye?
 [Faye] One minute.
 One minute. Good job. Okay. You all get your... First thing you do is what?
 Gloves.
 Get your gloves on. So you all are going to draw.
 With drawing blood, are you supposed to record where you drew at and everything just like a nurse is supposed to?
 I would if I were you, because that just protects you. So you can write median. You can write an MC, median cubital, and that way you may... actually you could put it on where you put your initials where you draw. And that way they know that you drew from the median. That you didn't draw from basilic.
 I need another needle.
 Okay.  Anybody else need another needle?
 Thank you.
 You're welcome. I'm going to send tourniquets home with you all and you can practice on everybody. Feel their veins, feel all the different types of veins. Some people have garden hoses is what I call them. Some people have very large veins. And feel for your vein.
 The tourniquet pinched my thumb.
 The gloves are hard to... you trading them out? It's this arm, Jim, I think because I had trouble getting it.
 When I was doing it, too.
 Okay. Just make it a little tighter with your...
 Oh.
 Did you stick yourself?
 Mm-mm.
 Okay.
 I screwed the wrong part.
 I think she's bleeding and I haven't even done anything yet.
 Oh, yeah hand me another one.
 There it goes again.
 Okay, Casey. Let me see what I can do for you. Good job, Martika.
 Want to just chill, how's the weather, blah, blah, blah, blah.
 Is it not come undone now? You might want to pull your tail, just pull it in there with one of the smaller tails. It'll stay down.
 Okay.
 It's moving again.
 You're kidding.
 See?
 Okay. Just keep going.
 Okay.
 Just keep going. It's easier on a person. That's my stomach, Jim. It's hungry. Sorry.
 [inaudible] Yeah, this one... Jim knows which ones stay better. Okay, you got to anchor your vein with your non-dominant... with your non-dominant hand you anchor your vein. I have to stand. I can't... see, you take your thumb and you pull down here. Anchor your vein. There you go. Casey, are you left-handed, too?
 Mm-mm. I thought you said non-dominant hand.
 Non-dominant hand to anchor. Back it out. Put it in this hand. Are you right-handed?
 Mm-hmm.
 Put non-dominant hand thumb there, anchor.
 Okay.
 Now, did you clean it?
 Yep.
 Okay. Then go in.
 Uh-oh.
 It's okay.
 It's okay. [Background Chatter]
 Well, that's okay. Put that on.
 Start over.
 A lot of this is hand movement. A lot of this is prac--
